he was pulling a 54 inch v wiper and felt pain in his lower stomach
breathing difficulties . ee provided first notification of this incident 7/26/05 .
while palletizing flat rock ( landscape stone ) injured person was swinging a maul & twisted his lower back causing a minor strain on lower back muscle .
employee was helping load bolts on roof bolter on 1 section . as he loaded the bolts he said he felt a pain in lower back . he did not go to see doctor , and continue to work every day till oct 6. he never said anything the whole time or on oct 6 about back hurting . he called us oct 7th , and said his doctor had him off on the strain from the 9-14-2015 incident .
ee stepped into hot feed & fell while looking for cause of power outage
employee was getting out of the mantrip when he got tripped up trying to get out and he fell on a 6 '' waterline that was on the ground causing him to hurt his ribs .
ee was using cutting steel bearing mount on the end a caterpillar d11n push arm . as he was cutting the bottom section , a small piece of hot slag ( < 1/4 '' dia ) blew out and got under his cutting goggles , burning the bottom of his left eyelid .
employee was attempting to bolt a shaft to a gearbox , when the shaft slipped in clamp pinching left thumb betwwen clamp and coupling .
bumped head in trk & that aggravated back injury
employee was packing in # 1mill when his right leg slipped on the steel railing and he fell down hitting his left knee on the steel rail . he was taken to pershing general hospital where he was given a knee brace and crutches and returned to work on light duty .
cleaning screens on temple using a drill with a rust stripper to clean screens was wearing safety glasses . everything was ok & went on to pump . eye started to bother hi around noon . went to dr next morning .
employee was grinding on angle with handheld grinder on fri 2/6/15 . he finished his shift and went home . the next evening ( sat 2/7/15 ) , his eye began to hurt and went to the er at 2am on sun 2/8/15 . he had piece of metal in right eye . dr removed metal and polished cornea . he said dr suspected the metal could have been in his eye lashes before getting into his eye on saturday
ee was fixing a vent bag using a scissor deck . using lever to raise scissor deck , something caught on the lever causing it to keep raising , thumb got pinched . seen at the er and wound closed with stitches . released to restricted duty .
alleged incident was supposed to occur while employee was walking along the 1 west belt . he said he tripped over a large rock and sprained knee ; cause of injury -- unawareness . miner proficien cy a factor ; compliance w/rules , protective equipment , mining equipment/systems not factors .
ee was on top of a railcar . lifted the mat so they can move the car .
ee was pulling a 6 ' roof bolt out of a stack of roof bolts . in the process he strained his right shoulder .
alimak raise , bolting after blasting round - just got collared when rock size of baseball came down hitting between glove and arm guard .
ee was checking center line when a rock fell from overhead striking him on the head and shoulder . he went to the local emergency room where he was examined , x-rayed and given a full return to work release . ee continued to experience pain and became a lost time as of july 13 , 2004 .
the discharge screen deck on # 6 tertiary crusher caught on fire during a plant startup after a scheduled fine crusher shutdown . after an initial attempt to put out the fire , the local fire department was called and the fire was out by 5:30 pm . no injuries were sustained .
the employee reported lower back pain attributed to many years of operating equipment and jacklegs . the case was under review for workman's compensation through the rest of 2005. on january 16 , 2006 the company received documenation that the case had been accepted as an occupational illness .
the employee was installing a new mcc panel . he and his work partners were lifting the panel into place when it slipped and struck him just above his hair line . he was taken to the er where he received several stitches to close the cut .
while loading three new conveyor onto a semi trailer the 3rd conveyor swayed and bumped the two loaded conveyor 50 ' causing them both to slide off the semitrailer . ee , other , and another were standing on the catwalks of the first two conveyor that were loaded . as the conveyors fell the ee fell with them , striking ee and other in the chest area and brusing another arm .
broken side cutter was removed from demag bucket with welding truck crane . hook-on cable got welded in point sheave . welding partner lowered winch causing slack on the reel . employee yanked on broken piece which came down on his finger because of slack .
while cutting and grinding plates for a grizzly a metal flake became airborne and enter the left eye of our employee , requiring medical treatment to remove . the injury left no perminent impairment to the eye and employee returned to work after one days absence .
ee stated that he was in the process of roof bolting the face of the # 2 entry on the # 1 unit . while pulling the drill steels back out of the roof , one of the drill steel sections stayed in the mine roof . while the ee was placing drill steel sections in the roof bolter's tray , the steel that had stayed in the roof fell out striking the ee's finger on his left hand .
this report is being completed in protest as the alledged accident did no occur on mine property . this report is only being completed to avoid a citation . the inj took a work statement to the foreman's home . lester did not come to the mine site . no witnesses can be found . per call , ee was getting out of scoop , slipped & hurt back
injured party was walking on a belt when he sliped and fell backwards striking his left shoulder . did not miss any work until 1/24/07 . this accident happened on 10/23/06 . the dr did not do anything to him and he did not miss any work . missed his 1st day of work on 1/24/07 .
ee was cleaning preheater riser duct . some of the material blew back , hit ee's face shield , & got under the collar of ee's ppe , causing a burn on ee's collar bone . first aid was administered , employee was taken to omp for medical evaluation , where ee was giving a prescription for silvadene and advice to keep wound clean dry and covered - returned to regular duty . medical treatment .
ee was trying to pry a rock out of the `` jaw '' when another rock rolled & hit ee's left wrist .
roof fall at # 2 entry , xc # 89 on the 3-left headgate . 8 ' tr bolts with 12 ' cable bolts in intersection . fall did not cause injury , property damage , affect ventilation , or impede travel .
roof fall in # 5 entry 1 crosscut inby spad # 7150. fall was 20 ' x 20 ' x 48 '' . no injuries occured .
employee was swinging a 12 pound hammer to remove the main shaft from a water pump when he recieved a partial tear of his right biceps tendon .
employee went to the iron tank area to see why dust was leaking to the ground . he noticed a holein the screw housing where a pipe had fallen off . screw grabbed and turned the belt . employee's thumb got pinched between the guard and screw cover .
employee was changing cutting bits on a piece of equipment . he was using an 8 lb hammer to release the retaining pin . a metal fragment chipped off the pin and struck his low abdomen . he was taken to a clinic and the fragment was partially removed . the remaining portion was left in place due to doctor's recommendation .
roof fall in the intersection of # 6 entry , one crosscut out by spad # 8205. fall was 50'x5'x18 ' . no injuries or equipment involved .
employee had a chemical burn on his right foot from wearing boots that had holes and walking through water near the construction of a cement paste wall . he continued to work for several hours before seeking first aid treatment on site . on 11/30/2004 the company received a medical bill for additional treatment for the foot - debridement on 10/28/04 .
member was walking along # 14 belt and bent down to cross under a water line , slipped and fell on an old piece of conveyor belt , causing a laceration to his knee . he went to williamson memorial hospital er where he received stitches and a full release to return to work .
ee was climbing into the cab of a flat bed truckwhen his foot slipped off the step . ee slipped to ground landing on both feet . ee complained ofpain in his lower back .
received a hearing loss diagnosis from worker's comp on 1/8/2014 . employee was diagnosed with hearing loss on 12/23/2013 . employee last worked on 4/30/2013 and is no longer with the company . accident date of 4/30/2013 is to accommodate online reporting per msha ( denver ) instructions .
ee was walking when he stepped on a hose causing him to fall backwards . ee got up experiencing pain in his left knee . ee placed on restricted duty .
employee was operating a metabo grinder cutting paddles off of a drag chain in the fab shop area . the drag chain shifted on the table causing the blade on the metabo to bind and kickback . when the metabo kicked back it struck the top of the employees left hand . the blade cut through the employees glove and into his hand .
while walking the associate stepped in the area where conveyor catwalk and the stairway to conveyor and the crusher platform meet . this is an area with a gap where two pieces of grip strut are side by side with one at a downward angle and the upward stairway . ee said that he apparently had stepped the area and heard his right knee pop .
ee was installing a 6 ' resin bolt . the bolt started bending , so he started rotating the bolt as he pushed it up . the plate started spinning and struck him on the rt . forearm .
743ht driver passed a blade , stayed near the windrow , saw the 716ht approaching , so stopped . 716ht driver thought there was room between the 743 and blade to continue , but grazed the rock deflectors . 743 stated he was fine , went to the er after shift , given a rx muscle relaxer , off work until clears d & a test .
ee was putting the orifice plate back on pump using air impact . he was holding the nut with his left hand , activated air impact . the nut had a burr on it and when impact was activated the burr cut thru employee's glove into the palm of hand causing laceration .
stepped off terex truck -- landed on piece of shale and ankle popped out .
ee was riding mantrip-hit dips in track-jarring caused injury .
ee was installing liners in a transfer chute , another person was handing him the plates from outside with restricted space and standing room . he twisted his back while handling a plate . ee was injured on 29th . he didn't go to dr till 9/3/03 and put on restricted duty .
while ee was working in the maintenance shop , he went down to one knee , grasped a piece of steelapprox . 40 to 50 pounds in weight to lift it to a saw horse . in doing so , he felt a pinch in his groin . ee waived medical attention until the end of his shift two days later on december 29 , 2000 .
the employee was removing snow with the front end loader . the corner of the bucket caught a pot hole and jerked the cab of the loader to the right . operator hit his head on the side window of the cab and required 8 stitches to close the cut . operator was wearing his seatbelt at the time of the incident .
shoulder strained while attempting to clear jam in cone . saw dr on 4-7-03. limited lifting with left arm for 7 days .
a contractor was mounting a new steele chute on a conveyor head section . the chute was pryed free & shot up in the air which pinched the contractors left hand . he had 3 stitches in one finger & 2 stitches on the in the other .
i was lifting a 60 lb . roller for a converger to get it out of way . i must of been twisting as lifting . back popped and i fell to the ground . could not get up for a couple minutes , but when i did get up , the pain was bad and i could not walk very well .
the ee experienced lower back pain in the performance of reg duties as a trackman medical records show a degenerative disc changes of the back at l3 , l4 & l5 ee did not start losing time until 10/20/00
employee stated that he was installing a roof bolt in uneven top and as he placed a half header between the half header on the roof bolt and the mine roof his middle on his right hand was caug ht between the half header and the mine roof .
ee was working on low head at wet grinding plant when he cut his right thumb above the last knuckle and below tip of thumb .
ee was installing a new cutting edge on the motor grader . he and a co-worker had the cutting edge suspended with a bar on each end , the edge slipped off ee's bar while changing hand positions and landed on his foot . the mow board was blocked .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred at xc 3 on the 8th 48 travelway , entry # 6. we are not cleaning this fall up , we stepped the travelway over . the area that fell was approximately 20 ' x 20 ' and was bolted with 72 '' tension rebar roof bolts . the affected area was re-supported with 84 '' bolts , brow bars , cribs , props and timbers .
employee was lifting 100 lb bags and his right forearm started hurting . doctor said his muscle was turning because it is a new job .
ee was setting the feeder when rock fell from the roof and hit his right hand .
ee pulled his truck forward from the primary dump hopper to clear rock from feeder . another ee saw him pull out and lost him in his mirror , assumed he turned right back into the pit and proceeded to back up to the hopper , when he struck the left front of ee's truck . ee was climbing down the ladder at the time , noticed the other ee backing up and jumped off out to the way .
while unloading a 50 pound bag of rockdust the employee felt pressure on the right side his abdomen which turned out to be a hernia . the employee had surgery to correct the hernia on 8-20-10. this did not become a lost time accident until 8-20-10 .
ee dropped the boom so he could get gas hole steels out . when the boom dropped , it swung toward ee and caught his hand between the boom and the steels . the ee was transported to the emergency room and received three stitches .
field service technician had air hose running from truck to excavator . when walking back to his truck , he tripped over air hose and caught himself on the excavator's track . this resulted in the technican fracturing his right wrist .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 3 entry near spad # 0271. there are no active faces in this mine , transfer of coal only . size of fall was approx . 40'l x 20'w x 8'h . area will be bre akered off and timbered and will not be rehabilitated .
ee was walking backwards carrying a small piece of steel plate . he tripped & fell backwards dropping the steel on his leg , bruising it . he was temporarily assigned to duties which did not req uire extensive walking .
employee was greasing rollers on dragline with an air accuated grease gun . hose developed pin hole & grease filled his glove and ( l ) thumb because of extreme pressure . employee had surgery to remove grease from around bone . he is off work presently .
something fell into some dust around employee sending dust into the air . steel sudt got into employee's eye . he was not wearing safety glasses . missed only 1 day as suggested by doctor .
ee was fueling dozer at end of the day . he was walking backward and stepped on groove ( indentation ) left in ground from dozer tracks . he felt pain in his ankle . ankle began to swell .
ee using 6 ' long bar to unlock and open railroad cars aggregate material . ee placed steel bar in doors lock to open door . ee did not immediately open door , but instead walked backwards with the backing train . ee had his right hand positioned over the flat end of the bar . the ee's right hand became wedged between the steel bars and an adjacent steel column .
ee was handling a piece of sheet metal when it slipped through his hands and lacerated left forearm .
operator let jack down on his foot , roofbolter stab jack
miner was dragging a razor blade knife cutting a belt , knife slipped and went into left leg about 5 inches above the knee and and cut leg . 10 stiches were incurred , back to work , no lost time .
employee strained his left shoulder while working on the # 2 finish separator . employee initially declined medical attention , but when the shoulder pain did not go away he went to see his doctor . this injury became reportable on 11/10/2010 when the doctor diagnosed the injury as a torn rotator cuff . the employee was placed on restriced duty . no time lost to date .
ee had just idled up the generator when he turned around and felt a sharp pain in his upper back . he did not fall , trip , or anything else he just turned around .
employee was bagging talc , the bag slipped as he reached for it , twisting his left wrist . he didn't tell us until 2-24-00. sent him to the doctor , the doctor put a wrist band on it and he retu rned to work .
ee put a metal bar against the a handrail and put the other end on a brace under the expanded metal . he put his hand on the handrail the metal slipped off the brace and the top of the bar smashed the ee right ring finger .
a loose connection on a transformer caused a power failure to the plant air compressor which caused exhaust valves to close on the pyro main baghouse which allowed hot gases to reach the dryer feed belts and started a fire . the mobile fire dept was called and they put the fire out in less than an hour . valves will be installed to prevent future like incidents
unintentional roof fall occurred on the main north track at 20 xc . the fall was 73 ' wide x 28 ' long x 8 ' high . into the crosscuts . fall occurred due to the deterioration of the immediate roof .
ee walking north along the west side of the main building towards the maintenance shop . he reached the shop door & turned right through the open roll-up door . a genie aerial lift had been left parked just inside the doorway with the boom lowered . the ee struck the edge of the boom with the bridge of his nose . incident reported to the mine foreman , first aid was administered .
ee was beating on b-1 circulating valve with a maul attempting to open it . when he felt a pain in his left sshoulder area . he was sent to river parishes hospital to be checked , and was advised that he had sprained his shoulder .
conveyor had been knocked off stand by ee ; ee was resetting conveyor onto stand when chain slipped pinching 1st & 2nd fingers between conveyor & stand .
while cutting steel cable on ground , piece of cable came loose and struck ee on his lower lip . causing laceration to his lip .
bad top was timbered off prior to rock fall 2 breaks inby spad # 687 .
ee tripped on water line falling and landing on left knee . he continued to work that shift on thrus . 8-30-01` . pain and swelling persisted and he was taken to dr who diagnosed with torn blood vessels and advised restricted duty until 9-6-01 .
at 32 x cut in return roof fell about 6'high , 20'long & 20'wide . no one was injured and no equipment was caught . moved stopping line over & breakered it off . we are not going to clean roof fal l up . ( air is traveling in right direction . )
while changing troughing rollers on a conveyor , employee reported a sudden onset of lower back pain that radiated down his right leg . he was evaluated by a physician and taken off of work .
ee was walking in storage yard when he stepped on soft material and twisted his left ankle .
ee was conducting routine daily walk-around inspection of the primary crusher plant and conveyors . supervisor came to check on ee and told him to take a break based on his appearance . ee then complained of chest and arm pains . 911 was called and ee was transported to hospital where he passed away later that night .
tightening bolts with impact gun and socket , slipped and struck ee in mouth .
the ee was carrying plank 14 ' x 10 '' x 3 '' he slip on the wet , muddy and uneven bottom , straining his left shoulder and back .
employee was holding miner cable with left hand making cut with right hand away from body , razor knife slipped cutting employee on left hand , received stitches at rainelle med . center
ee stated : helping at new longwall face set-up . when lifting an emulsion hose up to the hanger , experienced a possible strain to his shoulder .
at 1:35 a.m. the kuhntown elevator stopped operating . an employee was on the elevator from 1:35 until 3:10 a.m. the door switch was broken .
injury occurred while contract labor was watching trailing cable on a shuttle car . the operator of the shuttle car reeled the cable and caught the leg of the injured took his feet our from under him he landed striking the back of head . ppe was not a factor , mining equip/system was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
ee was pulling cable w/hoist while working at the shorthead crusher . while pulling the cable , ee states he felt a `` twing '' in his back .
ee had stopped at tr-06 to fuel and lube . when he checked the radiator fluid level he moved the cap to the first click and nothing happened . when he moved the cap to the second click the cap b lew off and sprayed anti-freeze on his right hand causing a second degree burn .
ee was drilling a face round with a jack-leg machine . when ee finished drilling a blast hole in the burn , he started pulling the drill steel out of the hole and the steel puller bounced up allowing the drill steel to come out of the drill causing ee to lose his balance and he fell backwards on his shoulder .
employee was working on the engine swing on truck 562. as he was walking up the stairs at the front of the truck , the a/c condensor core bracket was sticking out in the pathway , as he was walking up the bracket cut through his clothes cutting his right shoulder blade . after calling triage nurse , employee was taken to the morenci pd clinic .
ee was attempting to start a metal lathe . once the lathe was started the ee realized that it was operating at too high of speed and was reaching down to turn of the lathe . as he reached down he was struck by a piece of round stock in the metal lathe on the hard hat . this caused the headgear from his hardhat to cut his right ear .
mechanic inspecting 9028 loader for engine coolant leak . near left side of engine close to engine fan when a particle was blown into employee's right eye . became worse as the shift progressed ; was washed out by first responders but found it necessary to send employee to clinic . foregin body washed out , prescription med dispensed .
employee was climbing up # 52 elevator on cooling side of silos with an msha inspector . when he got to the top he felt his left butt cheek start to hurt . turned out to be a pulled muscle .
ee was lifting a belt roller when he felt a pain in his lower back and left leg . he has continued towork up until may 11 , 2004 when he stated that the pain in his leg had gotten worse .
ee reported : he & coworker were dissasembling belt structure from old no . 3 belt entry . the coworker had removed his end . when the victim was attempting to loosen the other end . coworker dropped his end , structure rail moved suddenly catching victim's finger tip against belt structure stand . extent of injury was simple fracture to tip of right ring finger
employee was washing tail pulley of belt . he was positioned below the jaw crusher below and protective deck . a rock virbrated through an opening below the protective deck , falling and hitting the employee .
ee was tightening base bolts on motor installation . was under drive coupler gear box . ee rose up and struck back on coupler & grease fitting .
while climbing over a rail to access a work platform , ee lost his footing and landed scissor style on the top rail , injuring his groin area .
there were 2 crews of 2 welding the ring on the shell at the same time . the affected ee was wearing a welding papr while ee was welding , but had the shield up while ee did the fitting work . as ee fitted the iron , the other crew continued to weld about 6 feet to the left . on june 10th ee woke up with eye irritation . ee sought medical attention and was suffering from welding flash .
employee was enlarging pilot hole in a guard he was building with a electric drill when bit caught and forced drill from his hand . the drill spun around and the handle struck his right wrist . he broke his 4th meta carsal bone in his right wrist .
ee was removing wear strips on a loader bucket . wrench slipped cutting left hand , he received 5 stiches .
ee cut the tip of his left thumb while cutting vacuum hose with a utility knife .
root cause : it was determined that this was a pre-existing health issue and not a work related issue . employee had a artery blockage . employee did not pass away on project site . employee passed away at the hospital . msha was notified immediately on november 6 , 2014 .
ee was trying to get bearing out of old shaker screen ( not in use ) . ee was using a hammer and chisel , he hit the chisel with hammer , the chisel flew up and struck the ee in the chin causing a laceration .
ee was getting out of his truck . when he was going down the ladder , he bumped his knee . by the end of the day he was unable to use the clutch in his truck . ee has missed work since 7/15/02 .
ee became fatigued using his right hand to cut strips in lagging on pulley . switched to his left hand and shortly after slipped and poked himself in the left thigh just above the knee . he sustained a 3/8 '' cut that was managed with first aid . after his shift he went to the dr for a tetanus shot and was convinced that he need stitches to prevent infection . reportable injury .
we were hoisting with one drum in operation as we were providing maintenance to our second drum and as a measure of caution we placed a courtesy call to msha to advise them .
employee didn't miss any time away from work . not aware of injury until mri was done on 10/25 . employee was supervising roof bolting activity . told bolter operator to back out of area because he didn't like the ground conditions . piece of rock approx . 4 to 5 ft. broke off striking employee on head , right shoulder and lower back knocking him to ground .
kiln stopped due to kiln feed plc failure . calciner pressure became positive with id fan stoppage . alternative solid fuels in the injection screw started to smolder . due to plc failure , fire protection system was not available to stop smoldering . smoke observed in preheater from ground level and fire department called . no one was injured as a result of the fire .
ee alledged repetitive motion while working as load , haul dump operator . ee had surgery to repair on 3-11-03 .
ee was using a c-clamp to press a wear plate against the blade of a d9 dozer . the clamp had a lot of pressure on it - when he reached up to release the clamp it popped off . then he jerked his head out of the way , his hard hat came off & theclamp hit him on top of the head .
ee complains of sore wrists from working in maintenance . it was determined on 5-2-03 that his diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome is occupationally related .
there was a roof fall measuring 20 ' l x 20 ' w x 6 ' h .
ee was holding one side of the new idler frame . other was using his foot to push the other side into place so it could be bolted down . as other pushed , the entire frame slid and caught ee s ha nd between the idler frame and the conveyor frame .
ee slipped off of side of 350 payhauler while attempting to replenish brake fluid . ee fell backwards twisting right knee in tailgate opening structure ee pulled liagments in knee and lower rig ht leg was x rayed at hospital the knee was hyperextended .
ee was maintain a cat 789b end-dump , when he attempted to lift a 50 # cylinder from a crouched position . in doing so , he strained a muscle in the middle portion of his back . he was diagnosed at the hospital .
ee was helping change blow bars on crusher plant . the blow bar slipped and hit his index finger on his left hand . he was sent to company dr-imediately .
ee was working on overhead doors in the pit service bldg . the job required a lot of lifting & turning . after working on this job for 2 wks he complained of pain in his elbows . he was evaulat ed by a dr on 5/1/01 it was determined to be occupationally related .
ee was hanging up a harness when a particle fell into his left eye .
the weather before the start of the employee shift was humid and there had been previous heavy rains . the employee was decending on a flight of stairs . the employee slipped causing the employee to fall down the steps . the employee had bruising of the rt . hip and rt . forearm .
ee was climbing back onto 980-g loader , when he slipped and strained his back .
ee reported : the victim was working along the longwall face line , he was attempting to program a shield for advancement , his left hand was on the face lin handrail at the time . a piece of draw rock fell from between shields striking his hand resulting in a fracture to the metacarpal bone of the hand .
there was no injury . msha contacted at 7:30 am and inspector performed an investigation along with state inspector . the co. corporate engineer was also involved in the investigation . the # 2 co al fan exploded throwing debris 15 ft. from the housing . fan itself remained intact but the housing was damaged beyond repair . full investigation is taking place & full report will go to msha
unintentional roof fall . 50 ' x 50 ' x 8 ' . # 4 belt entry . spad # 278 1200 feet outby face . 1 left section .
ee was operating his shuttle car when a piece of rock fell & struck his hard hat/shoulder & forearm
the ee was spreading rockdust from the rockdust bag with one hand , while holding the bag of rockdust with the other hand . he stated that he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . he left work at that time , driving himself home , he went to his doctor the next day .
employee was building a kennedy stopping and while he was holding the kennedy pannel , the top slid down and the sharp edges , cut the end of his finger . he required 3 stitches .
ee stated he was removing a pipe on the clean up pump . when putting it back together , he smashed his finger between the motor guard and the pipe .
ee was debelting when he turned around and fell down on his rt . arm .
ee strained right shoulder and lower back pushing a 4 wheel cart and using a come-a-long to move a 250 f.k . compressor . the compressor weighs approx 400 lbs . he was sent for medical evaluation , and shortly physical therapy 3-1-04 .
ee was unloading bag dust from one scoop to another and his right knee twisted causing pain . later in the shift he exited the scoop . while walking around the batteries , his foot got stuck between the side of the batteries and a rock that caused his knee to turn and pop . he sought medical attention and was diagnosed with a sprain/strain .
ee was pulling out fuel line hose to re-fuel mobile equipment . he had appox . 25 ' of hose out when it snagged on a loader bucket . ee attempted to flip hose and free it-in doing so felt a pull/strain in right shoulder . ee has been placed on restricted duty/rest for arm and has scheduled follow-up appt . w/phys . in 1 wk .
while trimming metal tail pulley safety guard with a torch , a small piece of molten metal fell into employee's right ear . he had appt . w/ear doctor on 6/26/06 and is scheduled for ear surgery on 7/18/06 for perforated ear drum . he went back to the doctor on 7/12/06 because of irritation & received antibiotic on 7/12/2006 .
employee was dragging a roller ( bottom ) and stepped in a hole twisting left knee . ee began missing work on 8/8/18 under doctors care .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 north 1 mains , corsscut # 17 , # 7 entry . tha fall measures approx 20 ' long , 18 ' wide and 5 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
ee was walking beside the scoop . he stepped on a large piece of coal , fell backwards , and tried to brake his fall by reaching for the scoop . in doing so , he pulled his left pectoral muscle .
occupational illness from repeatitive motion reported to managemtn 4-3-02. received approval from workers comp on 4-22-03 .
ee slipped while setting a pump and strained his left knee .
ee , a miner operator , was helping install a buggy anchor . after the anchor was installed , ee bent down to pick up a piece of key steel from the roof bolter drill boom . the center shuttle car took up slack on the cable one break inby , causing the anchor to strike ee in the chest . ee sustained a cracked sternum and is currently lost time .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 7 entry on the # 1 section at spad # 17553 on the active section . the fall measured 140 ' length x 19 ' width x 5 ' to 6 ' height . no personal injuries reported . ventilation was affected . passage of persons was not affected . all entries to fall have been breakered off . no equipment involved .
employee was changing anvils on turbo crusher . employee was hitting anvils with a two pound sledge hammer when a piece of metal struck upper lip . employee did not report incident to management until 10/18/11 . first treatment was basic first aid . employee sought medical treament on 11/11/11 to have a removal of foreign material from upper lip . there was no lost time involved .
ee was measuring timber and the top timber fell on his ankle .
while attempting to reverse the rotation of an electrical motor , employee received flash burns to both eyes & minor burns to his rt . wrist . ee opened what he believed to be the correct circuit breaker . however , the wrong circuit breaker was in fact opened thus the power was not shut off to the motor . he was using a pair of needle nose pyiers to move the wires , explosion occurred .
pins in cat 980 g loader broke causing the seat to slip back , causing the employee to strike his head against the rear glass .
employeewas pulling on a 4 '' air hose when he felt pain in middle of his back on the left side .
employee was moving plywood off of equipment skid , when he stepped on a rock . this twisted his foot/ankle , casuing a chip fracture in his left foot . employee reported on 9/22 and visited the dr. on 9/24 .
employee was pulling a piece of curtain off of the rib . when the curtain came off , the employee fell back landing on his left shoulder . the employee went for an x-ray - results were neg . employee's shoulder continued to hurt , he went for an mri - there was a positive result . employee is currently working restricted duty while doing physical therapy .
ee was coming down ladder of wash plant . it was dark and raining . needed a flashlight . left foot slippe doff step rung . ee caught himself with his arms and then left sharp pain in back .
ee was pulling on cables and strained right shoulder . started missing work 4-24-2003 .
ee was cutting angle iron with a band saw . he attempted to trim the tip of the iron when the saw slipped and cut the finger .
employee claimed he sprained his left knee when going thru mandoor at shaft bottom . he had an mri and went off work 5-23-00 .
at 8:00 am discovered a roof fall in the # 4 roomof the 1st northesat batt between # 8 and # 9 x cut . area was bolted with 3 ' fully grouted bolts , fall was 55 ' to 60 ' long 6-8 ' high 17 ' to 18 ' wide . the fall was caused by roof water .
a fall of the roof occurred on # 2 unit , # 5 entry and part of 5 right # 54 x cut aprox . 20'l x 35'w x 9 ' thick . it appeared to be a hidden slip and was bolted with 6 '' point achor glue pins .
employee was under the fuel tank using a wrench to tighten a bolt on the vertical swing shaft on the dragline . employee felt pain but did not report it until two days later . he thought he would be o.k . but had to go to the doctor . he recieved a right shoulder rotator cuff-tendonitis . employee is restricted .
on 11-23-09 the main hoist suffered a control module failure at the # 29 mine . the hoist failed at 2:34pm and msha was notified at 2:37pm . the hoist was back in service at 5:00pm and msha was notified at 5:05pm .
employee states he was driving # 2 polaris 6x6 from pump # 3 to pump # 2. as he was starting down the hill he let off gas the ebs locked up causing the atv to slide sideways . the front end hit a snowbank & started to roll . he jumped off catching himself with his right arm dislocating his shoulder .
employee was cutting a wire tie on the drill rod support with a knife and cut ee's thumb in the process . ee received 6 stitches .
while repairing pallet car wheels on a bench in the shop , the ee developed pain in his right shoulder . determined to be tendonitis and ee started physical therapy on 3-4-02 .
mechanic was attempting to repair a defective brake canister . he had loosen one of the bond clamps on the carter . the brake canister is spin loaded . it flew apart and the end cap struck the me chanic on the knee causing injury .
employee was pulling at # 1 bagger . while doing a load the seat he was sitting in broke with him causing him to fall . he grabbed a bar attached to the bagger to pull himself onto the machine to keep from falling into the area below .
ee was being loaded and is unsure if the dipper or a rock hit the side of the right side of the bed of the truck .
ee was carrying a piece of metal 3'x3 ' to a manbus , when he traveled under the stacker belt he felt pain in his back and left shoulder . strated missing work on nov 5 , 2002
ee was grinding on the left side top of the tub in the rail path area . the wind blew a filing into the eye . 3
employee , employed as a mechanic with bayer construction was cleaning a radiator on an excavator . he stepped from the excavator to the ground and rolled his ankle which resulted in a sprain . .
ie was assisting another with a roof bolt.ie was holding support ee was securing it with a bolt , he placed his right hand on the mast.once ee installed bolt he dropped the drill pot smashing ie's fingers in the mast.ee suffered an amputation of his right middle finger just below the second knuckle and an amputation of the right ring finger just above the nail bed .
ee was working 9on the splitter , he went to move a pebble off the top of a rock being cut , when the splitter teeth came down and smashed his finger . he lost the fingernail & received stitches .
ee was handling concrete blocks , stacking them on a pallet . he was reaching for a block that was on a lower level , as he was grabbing the block a block from the top level fell hitting him on both hands .
employee was retrieving a vacuum system from lbh2 baghouse . as he climbed the ladder to retrieve the equipment he felt pain in his right side . as he reached the bottom with the equipment the pain became extreme .
ee was assisting on rehanging tubing that had been knocked down . fell , twisting knee .
while changing out rollers employee was climbing back on to a cat-walk and sliped hiting his right knee on a hand rail .
roof fall outby spad # 10876 approx 75 ' long 6 ' high
dredge was down , ee was changing fittings , wrench slipped . hand was jammed between the bolt & fittings . ee jerked hand out cutting off tip of left index finger
ee was removing a large stone from the crate to place it on the table saw , when he felt a pain on the upper left side of his body .
an unintentional fall of the mine roof was discovered in the # 2 entry at # 71 x-cut in the north west mains . the fall was approx . 7 to 8 ft high , 19 ft wide and approx . 400 feet long . the initial discovery of this fall revealed that draw rock has fallen out below the anchorage point of the roof bolts used in this area . the area was centered cribbed and dangered off .
victim was roof bolting in the projected @ 2 room belt entry of 2nd right butt return side while installing a 42 '' roof bolt victim was pushing bolt into roof and the bolt bend he lower head of bolter attemted to staighten bolt and went to push bolt into roof and caught finger .
strain to lower arm requiring splint for 2 weeks . ee was lifting bags of anfo picking bags up off of the ledge . grabbing bags with ee's left hand to load the holes . noticed it about 6pm at home after work . couldn't get comfortable when ee tried to go to sleep . this morning ee couldn't pick up an orange . has a hard time opening ee's hand
a grass fire was discovered in the tall grass above 7 & 8 north pre-strip area . the fire was not extinguished within 30 minutes . a motor grader and mine firefighting equipment extinguished the grass fire . no miners , mine equipment or structures were ever at risk during this fire event .
rock fall in old north mains inby spad # 375 # 5 entry . 18'long 10'wide 20 '' thick .
employee states that ee was extending the tripod legs out on the transit and as ee extended the legs ee felt a pop in ee's elbows and forearm . employee was seen by doctor on 5/20/2018 and was given modified work duty .
inj was unplugging sample chute pipe at the headend of the high 7bl sample belt with a bar when he felt & heard a pop sound in his right rib cage
on # 1 panel off of # 5 belt near spad # 1261 a roof fall was found on 1/26/2006 . this area is traveled on a weekley exam . ( outby area ) no injuries occured and ventilation was not disturbed . area dangered off and cribbed . fall was 20 ' long x 20'wide x6 ' high .
two miners were replacing boards on floor # 6 west . ee was using a hand saw to cut a board . the board broke causing him to fall . he landed on his right side causing bruising and a torn ac joint in his right shoulder .
face fall of # 5 entry b-12 , 3-right panel off of 1-right submain . due to geologic conditions associated with an abandoned channel deposit above the coal , the fall fell on the front of the mining machine as it opened up the intersection of the # 5 entry from 4-5 break 12 ( b-12 ) crosscut . the fall proceeded outby over the miner from 5-4entries into a 2-way intersection in # 4 .
a roof fall measuring 6'x11'x40 feet occurred one cross-cut outby spad number 659 no . 7 return entry
ee was swinging boom of the continuous miner . hegot his hand caught between the boom & the frameof the miner mashing his small & ring fingers onhis left hand .
employee stated that while standing outside the specialty office a piece of hydrated lime blew into ee's eye . the employee was seen by an optomologist and was treated with a prescription .
east 1 35 block # 5 heading 4-way intersection mmu 007 . 7'high x 20'wide x 20'long . type of support : 6'resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall .
tripped over wire and hurt left knee on the way to restroom
ee was drilling with a jackleg , the steel shanked . weight of drill pulled him into steel that shanked .
ee stepped over bench in the dry , tripped and fell , catching self with left arm . strained hand , wrist , elbow , shoulder . ee seen at clinic , diagnosed with a chip fracture and possible soft tissue tear , referred to orthopedist and placed on restricted duty .
employee strained his right shoulder tightening down belt structure , he was treated at the hospital er and returned to work , upon the results of his mri test ee was excused from work by the dr. for 6 weeks .
attempting to remove wheel from rockduster . they had removed the axle pin from the wheel , jacked the duster up , placed wooden header boards under frame to provide clearance for the wheel to drop . rubrail bar was bent & there was pressure on the wheel which caused the wheel not to break loose . ee struck wheel with hammer which caused the frame to drop & rubrail to catch top of foot .
walked into a valve on classifier located approx 6 ' from ground . employee struck right side of gface on valve .
ee was standing next to pallet loaded with bagged product . forklift attempted to pick up pallet , pushed pallet 4 '' -6 '' and struck ee's lower right leg . injury was minor , no cut , just small bruis e , taken to dr as a precaution .
east 4 , block 7 , # 3 entry , 4 way intersection , mmu 007 17 ft long by 40 ft wide by 16 ft high . type of support , cable bolts , 6 ft 3/4 resin bolts , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roo f supports set around fall .
while hanging the miner cable , ee felt something `` pull '' along his right shoulder . on 8/6/04 he visited a local physician and was referred to a neurologist . after viewing the results of his exams , his physician referred ee to physical therapy . this report was delayed due to the lack of a definite diagnosis of the ailment .
man working at bottom of # 2 motor pit , standing on insulating plate . man was pulling up on 1 1/2 '' diameter cable . the combination of the man's weight and the force of pulling caused plate to b reak . man broke through plate , fell straight down and scraped shin on insulating plate .
while hauling overbureden on the back haul empty truck , hit dip in road and operator struck head on inside of cab , oprator was rendered unconscious . there was not were physical damage reports ed by the dr's . no damage was done to the equipment .
standing on a pallet of product next to the double stacked pallet and trying to straighten pallet that had tripped backward . ee was trying to put a strap around top pallet , and stepped off pallet and fell to floor .
roof fall was found at 9:10pm in the return on 1 left panel in 20 south mains at break # 41. fall started in the intersection of # 7 entry and went approximately 150 ' thru the intersection in # 9 entry from spad 2245 to spad 1166. this area was mined around the first of june . area was dangered off .
ee ( 1 ) was handing a pressure washer gun from platform c to platform d when anothe ee ( 2 ) accidentally pressed the gun trigger while attempting to grasp the gun . the gun discharge and hit ee ( 1 ) in the left inner thigh causing a cut .
employee was hanging pipe and wiped sweat from forehead . he noticed eye irritation and started to rub his right eye . he imbedded a small rust particle in his eye from continuous rubbing . the p article was removed .
employee was loading ram jack onto shearer , while repositioning the ram jack it shifted catching finger between the shearer and ram . lack of employee concentration was the cause of this incident . ppe was not a factor , mining equipment and mining systems was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
while prying pump screw with railroad bar , bar slipped and struck ee on right wrist .
ee was advancing the beltline on a continuous miner section . he had turned on the water in the water line . a fire hydrant was open & water was coming out . he went to shut off the valve & stepp ed on the section feeder cable that was in the bwalkway . he twisted his knee . feeder cable in walkway caused the injury . no damage or impairment to operation . no other factors involved .
ee was drilling 2 pieces of metal when the drill bit broke . he fell forward and sturck his hand on the bit .
employee was cleaing silt when a block of wood slipped , then flipped and hit the employee in the right ankle .
775d haul truck was driven off of elevated curvein quarry resulting in minor lacerations and bruising .
ee was using cutting torches cutting hanging roof bolts , bolt fell rupurtering paint cna , igniting paint can burning ee face .
lacerated right thich , cutting belt on longwall , cut through belt and cut thigh .
ee was working on a portable plant . at the end of the day he told me that his back was sore , but he did not need to go to the doctor at that time . he went the next day . it was a back sprain .
a fall of the roof occurred in the sub-main west # 3 entry 1xcut inby spad # 1629 at xcut # 54 # 1 unit supply road . approx . 60 ' l x 18'w x 9 ' thick bolted with fully grouted 6 ' pins , & 9 ' point a nchor bolts .
was assisting in lifting-loading oxygen and a cetyene tanks , also pulling 6 '' water line for flange connections , pulled muscle in right shoulder .
his tailgate would not close . a mine employee of ours brought a loader to help close the tailgate . injured held a board on the tailgate so it wouldn't get scratched . when the loader made co ntact w/tailgate , injured's finger was pinched . he had a cut that required three stitches .
employee was cleaning a scooter and slipped and fell on the wet pad . employee landed on left hip , causing pain around the waist and into right groin . this incident became recordable on 11/13/08 due to referral to physical therapy and prescription meds .
ee was walking , slipped and fell onto a water line .
oct 13,2005 employee was walking across shop floor and felt something snap in his left knee . he was not able to see a doctor unitl 10/17/2005 .
we were doing a job at brenda kay sand llc , ee and co-worker were attempting to move a piece of grated steel that had been stacked on top of another . as ee lifted end up in order to place spud wrench , the sheet moved towards ee . doing so trapped finger between the sheets and caused a tip amputation of the left middle finger .
greasing zerk on top of sand screw . slipped and bruised left shoulder and left ribs . broke tip of thumb .
the employee was diagnosed with noise induced hearing loss . 10.27 % permanent partial disability was awarded . loveridge was notified on sept 20 , 2007 .
employee was raising the lid on a set of batteries for a r/c to perform maint work . the prop did not engage the hole to hold lid open . lid fell striking her r arm . sutures required .
injured maintenance mechanic and co-worker were installing samplepoints in metal pipe . injured held cut pipe in one hand and a light in the other hand . the pipe section was heavier than he exp ected , and it moved his wrist against a sharp edge , lacerating it and requiring four ( 4 ) sutures . he was wearing a long sleeve shirt , but no gloves , however the injury was above the cuff line
employee is a shuttle car operator . he got off his car to hang up continuous miner cable . when he bent over to pick up the cable , he felt a sharp pain in his stomach and groin area . he continu ed to work until 2-3-04. his last shift worked was 2-2-04. he is to have surgery to repair the hernia .
while contractor was tying down tires on the bedof a semi-truck , a strong gust of air from a storm blew him off the trailer . he fell approximately 4 ' , landing on his left arm .
had rockfall on # 4 unit belt line at xc # 5- 40'x 7'x 20 ' .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 2 entry on # 9 belt panel at spad 4402. fall measured 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' thick . no equipment or injuries . roof fall did not affect ventilation and/or passage of persons . the fall will not be rehabilitated . area was developed 3/2010 . federal & state agencies notified immediately . there is no active section at this operation at this time .
roof fall in b-panel main # 0 entry . break 63 at spad 763. the fall measured 9 ' high x 18 ' wide by 60 ' long . the adjacent area was inspected along with the fallen area .
ee was walking the slope belt using the 2 '' water line for a hand rail . ee got his lt. middle finger caught between the old 2 '' water line and the good 2 '' metal water line .
grassey creek no . 2 de-rail - when ee reached up to throw de-rail paddle he felt pain in his right shoulder .
was filling a can of water out of fire tap to plaster stopping when a piece of rock 124 '' by 16 '' by 4 '' slid off screen and struck him on right shoulder and neck and knocked down waterline .
climbing out of front end loader , ee missed 2nd stair & fell catching himself with right hand pulling right shoulder .
ee was in the process of dismounting the pc300 , when he placed his foot on the ground . he stepped on a lump of kaolin , when the lump rolled , he twisted his knee .
unknown date & time there was a roof fall measuring approx 40'l x 20 ' w at break 24 on 1 west mains .
on 4/5/18 employee stated when ee stepped out of loader ee felt pain in left knee . ee stated ee did not slip or fall just pain . ee was examined by site medic & cleared to continue work . on 4/6 ee's 1st day off ee's knee was still bothering ee , so ee sought further medical care on ee's own were ee received restrictions .
while plumbing a new lift , he was moving pipe into position and slipped on the ice . he continued working that day , has no time lost , but has seen a doctor and will schedule an mri . he has been released to restricted/modified duty from 1/9/15 to 2/9/15 ; lifting , climbing , reaching . he can perform his duties as mine superintendent in full capacity without doing these things .
ee was exiting drill when his foot slipped , felt pain in right shoulder . dr prescribed pain medication .
ee states he was compacting dirt with a compactor and stepped on a loose rock , twisting his right ankle and spraining his muscle .
employee was trimming the skirt on the conveyer and the uitility knife slipped and he cut his finger . it required 11 stitches .
ee was replacin o ring on the pit shovel . wheileworking on this the ee reached over to get a hydralic hose whe he strained his left shoulder
employee was raising pump suction line and crank spun around and struck ee on the palm side of left hand .
the individual was loading crib blocks in the scoop bucket when he caught his left ring finger between the crib block and the scoop bucket . the individual is a contract ee ( bates contracting ) this is a medical treatment only . there were no lost time or restricted work days .
employee was separating plies on a piece of conveyor belt , when his olfa knife slipped cutting his left forearm .
on wednesday , august 29th sometime around 2:00 pm a car was found in the main lobe of thornton quarry . upon investigation the deceased driver was observed inside the vehicle . it appears from preliminary findings that this incident is a suicide . the car entered the quarry from williams street landing 150 feet below . the local police are conducting an investigation .
employee received first aid treatment after small cut on finger . ee was prescribed an antibiotic and given limited use of right hand work restrictions .
ee was climbing a ladder when a feed tube feill & hit him
employee was helping install a cutting edge on the motor grader . ee right hand index finger and ring finger was pinched between the cutting edge and the mold board . stitches were required .
ee attempted to remove full oil drum from discharge end of mill # 11. the edge of the drum was placed on the lip of the bobcat and when ee tried to lift the drum more it fell over and landed on his left foot .
ee attempted to lift a flip gate on the truck dock # 7 that had become hung up at the edge , butwhen the flip gate was released , it sprung up & back down on the ee's lt. hand causing a fractur e to his first and second fingers .
miner was helping a mechanic finish repairs on a genset . he was installing the raincap on the exhaust stack . he was pushing down and wiggling the cap and the cap slipped on suddenly pinching the miners finger ( middle ) cutting the tip of it off .
putting block under loader bucket in shop . loader was turned off and bucket dropped down on block and bruised the top of right foot on employee . told ee we would take ee to get it x-rayed . ee said would ice it tonight and let company know how it is in the morning .
an area of roof fall fell in the # 8 entry intake at spad # 803 ( outby ) area was developed in 3-5-02. area was bolted with 4 ' x 6 ' fully grouted bolts . roof was wet laminated slate . fall is 50 ' long , 18 ' wide , 3 to 5 ft thick . fall will not be moved . stopping line will be moved over establishing escapeway .
employee was attempting to place a roof mat onto the atrs of the roof bolter and stepped too far , and as he stepped off of the cat walk of the roof bolter , he caught himself with outstretched arm on top of the canopy and atrs frame work resulting in a strain of the left rotator cuff .
an unplanned roof fall has occurred , above permanent anchorage , on the 11 north miner section . this fall exists in the # 4 belt entry , one crosscut outby spad # 566 and measures approximately 50'x 20 '' x 10 ' high .
installing pigtails ee reached for a stick of glue and accidently turned up pressure switch on causing drill to raise pinching ee's hand betweenmono-rail . had 4 stitches to 1 finger on left ha nd .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the 3rd west headgate # 3 entry 12,380 west . the fall was 10 ' long x 19 ' wide x 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the f all was mined through by 9:00 p.m. ( not blocked )
ee was helping move miner when it see-sawed on uneven bottom . he caught his right arm between roof and miner . he started missing work on feb. 2 for surgery .
ee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome of the left and right wrist . started missing work on 12/2/2009 due to surgery .
a roof fall was found during the preshift examination at 2115 on the 003 section belt line at # 16 xcut . the fall was approximately 20'x 80 ' x 12 ' high . this area had been bolted with 5 ' high t ech roof bolts .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at station 14+75 entry # 4 on the 4e travelway . the fall did not affect ventilation , passage of men or cause personal injury . the fall measured 25feet x 22feet x 7feet .
ie and another ee were removing the steels from a fast 65 hole . the bottom steel didn't come loose and when it turned the wrench hit ie in the left ankle .
an employee moving a set of rail cars to a spur track , stepped off of a train car from the built in ladder designed for the car and felt a pain in ankle . ee did break both the bones in lower leg . the contributing factors included housekeeping on the surface that ee was stepping down onto and failure to complete a pre-job hazard analysis .
ee was pulling grease hose ( from a service truck ) across frozen ground conditions . the hose hung up on a piece of frozen ground which caused unexpected force and twisting motion to the employe e when the length of hose suddenly tightened . hecontinued working until 2-26-01. at that time he was unable to work due to back pain .
the injured employee was releasing hand brakes and bleeding the air from a string of railcars in preparation to load the next car . the employee was between the house track and side track when he slipped and fell injuring his left arm , elbow , side ( torso ) and hip .
ee was cleaning and organizing work in the shop when he sprained his right thumb on a heavy bearing .
ee fell against hand rail and cut chin .
ee was bolting top in # 1 heading when a piece of draw rock fell and struck ee's left arm , ee had 10 stitches in left arm .
ee alleges that he stepped down off water truck and landed on a rock twisting his ankle .
injured was installing a battery in a vacuum truck when he felt a sharp pain in his back . reportable because of lta begining 5/10/04 . injured could no longer perform job functions and physician authorized time off .
ee was in the process of repairing a belt splice . when the belt was placed into the flexco 840 belt cutting device , the blade was not in the fully retracted position , which exposed the cutting blade . ee's hand slipped and came into contact with the cutting blade , causing a laceration at the pinky joint .
the ee had his left hand at the upper portion of the drill steel while the drill steel was inserted into the drill pod . at the same time , he turned on the rotation on the drill pod and the drill steel caught a worn area on his glove and wrapped the glove around the drill steel . this caused his fingers to wrap around the drill steel , causing the injury .
employee was stepping off a uniloader . he had placed his left foot on the step and while bringing his right foot forward the toe of his boot caught on the frame causing him to fall forward . he attempted to jump clear , but struck his right knee on the loader bucket .
when injured backed up towards berm at waste dump area ; truck went through berm or ground gave way causing truck to go into abandoned quarry . injured did not go to the dr. until 6/25/03 . rep ortable from standpoint of modified duty only . no lost time as of present date .
member was using a pocket knife to cut a rag when he accidently cut his middle finger on his left hand .
the main portal elevator experienced problems with the automatic doors at 2:55 pm . troubleshooting revealed the door linkage was bent and had tobe straightened . after repairing and putting bac k into service more problems were experienced with the lower door switch . repairs were made and the elevator placed back into service at 4:55p
employee was helping another man lift 120 # keg of grease and the keg slipped pinching rt thumb between keg and steel beam .
the main hoist went down at 10:45 am with a broken soe on the shaft guides . the shoe was replaced and the hoist was operational 1:55 p.m .
while tramming ram car he ran over a piece of rock on the mine floor causing him to be thrown upin the operator's compartment . he landed on his self rescuer causing a contusion to lower back .
employee was moving a wheelbarrel loaded with material from underneath a belt on the raw belt floor when he felt a pain in his lower back , followed with a tingling in his feet .
clearing a chute full of rock with a bar , he hitthe rock which gave way and crushed finger between the bar and chute .
a power failure at 06:42 caused the main hoist to trip out . the cager was in the cage at the time . hoist was brought up on generators by 07:13 no injury to the cager . the hoist was brought back into full service by 8:28am once the power was restrored to site .
injured was installing `` o '' ring in a cylinder hose when the torque from the hose threw his right hand into the fan causing laceration .
ee along with three other employees were lifting a piece of metal in place to serve as a guard for a beltline .
a piece of steel got stuck in the cone crusher ee and other were using a long burning rod to burn the steel out of the crusher . once the steel was removed he placed the burning rod into a buck et of water to coal . the water splashed into ee's face and he thinks that s when the debris entered his eye .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 1 entry , left return at spad # 1031. the fall measured approx . 40 feet x 19 feet x 6 feet . the area was developed on 6/1/09 . no injuries were reported .
ee was pulling cable , making power move on section . he re-injured his left arm that he originally hury on 7/30/01 but did not report or go to doctor .
while using a heavy steel bar to close sides on hoppper cars , ee felt left shoulder pain .
e-butt rooms on left side ; fall occurred at face area of an old set-up . area was abandoned 9 months . 3 xcuts long , 20 ' wide in 3-room set of butt .
employee was loading a telehandler on a roll back when it slipped off jolting the employee in the cab . this resulted in small fracture to ee's upper shoulder .
ee was rolling a tractor tire out from machine with another ee and the ie was walking back and tripped over a rock pile and landed on the rock pile . this was an underground mine and the only light was the light on the helmets .
the injured was struck on the arm by a rock that fell from the mine roof between the atrs and the last row of bolts .
employee was stepping up onto a continuous miner , when he lost his balance and fell backwards , landing on a section foremans walking stick . diagnosed with a fractured coccyx ( tailbone ) and right axilla abrasions .
while repairing lights on cat haul truck , ee was cutting into an old wiring splice . as he cut thru insulation with knife , knife slipped and cut hand . laceration to left hand requiring 4 suture s .
cat 980f loader control's adjustment jammed and operator unable to adjust for neutral positioning during equipment's operation . several days of operation resulting in muscular repeatative motion injury to soft tissue , posterier of left shoulder . injured employee tardy in prompt reporting to management .
a roof fall was discovered in the # 4 entry ont he track at the # 3 drive in the into the far on one of the intake entries for the 002 section the fall was appx 40ft long x 20 ft wide x6 ft high . the roof fall was cleaned top and resupported with 7 '' x9 '' over problem .
while emptying a wheel barrow , ee felt extreme pain in his lower back .
employee was cleaning battery carousels with dysol ii solvent cleaner , employee was exposed to vapors and was found unconscious by another employee . reliance medical clinic diagnosis him with inhalation and was released back to full duty .
injury occurred removing pin from excavator boom . man was hit in the right side of head with the pin driver when the pin came completely out of bore hole . emt was call and he was taken to be checked out .
prepping for a vulcanize splice . ee was cutting off pieces of fingers or wedges of belt . ee put a new blade in ee's knife and was cutting the fingers and had ee's left arm close to where ee was cutting and cut through the belt and cutting ee's right forearm .
employee was climbing up a extension ladder , when ee stepped up on the top part of ladder it slid down catching right hand between rungs and bruised the top of the hand .
ee was doing a post trip inspection of the track dozer . he slipped on an icy spot on the dump and fell , injuring his ankle . he sought treatment on 12/05/13 and was referred to an orthopedist . the orthopedist placed him off duty and referred him to a foot and ankle specialist .
ee was using a belt knife to trim belt and cut his right thigh
employee was changing the cover on the intake on blower when the wrench slipped and caused his rt . elbow to hit the housing .
employee was fueling his loader , and when he returned the fuel nozzel he lost his footing and fell , twisting his left leg . he then went to the hospital and they said it was a sprain .
ee was working on a gardner denver drillat the quarry . he was walking around the drill when his head hit the corner of a tool box which was attached to the drill . the impact of the tool box ag ainst his forehead caused him to receive 16 stitches to his head .
while removing rock that had fallen on continuous miner , a piece fell & hit ee on right hand . the middle finger on right hand was dislocated & the last digit was broken . ee considers this a mi nor injury . he took one day off & plans to be back after vacation .
ee was operating a fork truck and crossing a set of railroad tracks when the forks or load caught a rail causing the fork truck to stop abruptly . the employee was caught by his seatbelt but he bent forward and hit his chest on the steering wheel .
ee was climbing out of scoop and hit his elbow on the directional box in the deck . toney is 9-5-02 updated information was recieved today that he was going to be a lost time due to medical pro blems with this elbow .
icy conditions on ramp leading up fom bottom of pit
the ee was exiting a loader # 71-926. as he climbed down the ladder his hand slipped on the handrail . he twisted his left knee . saw company doctor on 4-30-09. no restrictions that prevented him from doing his job . returned to doctor on several occasions . surgery done on 7-29-09. reportable as of then .
ee was working on a catwalk . stepped backward off a step tot he lower catwalk 10 inches onto small piece of refractory and twisted his left ankle .
ee was welding on the drill frame . with the welding hood on looking through the clear lens he was chipping slag when a gust of wind blew a metalparticle in behind the welding hood and into his lt. eye . his eye was washed out and he continuedto work the remainder of shift . the eye became more irritated . he went to the clinic and a piece of metal was found embedded in his eye .
the employee was operating a drill and was in the process of changing out a bit sub , and as he was setting the bit sub into the drill deck pocket , using the wench line , the sub became unbalanc ed and shifted , pinching his right hand between the bit sub and the carousel . the employee sustained a laceration on the inside of his right ring finger . was taken to the er , received sutures
alleged incident was to occur while this employee was operating a scoop while pulling tool skid . tool skid that he was pulling lifted the rear of the scoop and let it drop . cause of this injur y was awareness and not putting the skid in the bucket of the scoop to pull . rough roadway a contributing factor .
ee operating chain saw cut a tree & a limb fell out of the top of it and striking him on the left arm & wrist
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in the return air course about 3,000 ' outby the mmu 001 section . there were 2 return entries in this area . cribs were built inby & outby the fall . the fall measured 18'-19 ' wide x 20'-25 ' long x 2'-6 ' thick . this area was bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
was sampling the face and he attempted to change the sample sack but slipped while grapping the sack . back of right hand brushed agianst quartz rock resulting in a laceration to back of hand 5 stitches .
ee was working on plant when he slipped in the mud and tripped on an extension cord causing him to fall fracturing his right arm .
ee strained his right knee while crossing the section tail piece .
ee was hit with falling debris when structural failure occurred in cement storage dome project
ee was using a pry bar to separate drilled slabs when he slipped out of the drill hole & fell down hitting his lower back . ee suffered a back sprain & bruising .
shear tail drum struck shield breaking off a bit which struck ee as ee moved quickly to avoid being struck by the bit , he twisted his knee . ee worked until 11-26-00 and had knee surgery perfor med on 11-27-00 ee missed no days until 11-27-00
a five-employee crew was stringing a new conveyor belt using a 350 excavator , forklift , and pry bars . as the belt was being pulled into place , it lifted out of the troughing rolls , swinging toward three employees standing on the catwalk . the miner was caught between the belt and the handrail , causing a strain to neck , jaw and shoulder .
there was snow on the road to disposal site . the air mover lost traction at top of a hill along the road & was unable to continue to disposal site . there was ice on the ground where the air mover was disabled . ee exited vehicle to set wheel chocks . he was wearing required footwear , but no ice cleats . he sustained a fracture to right elbow , but is released to work w/restrictions .
this is not an accident . emp was working with supervisor welding , wearing all ppe , when supervisor noticed emp's coloring not right . supervisor told emp to take off ppe and sit down . supervisor noticed emp's condition did not improve & proceeded to take emp to local emr & he was diagnosed as having a heart attack .
ee lifting the travel-side return idler bracket after splicing conveyor belt . idler shaft had not fully set in bracket & slipped out . sudden release carried bracket to ee's face chipping a tooth -- required dental repair .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 1 north 1 right return , entry 8 crosscut 41 thru 42. the roof fall measured approximately 60 ' in length , 17.5 ' in width , and 8 ' in thickness . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8448217 ) , was issued october 30 , 2012 , by msha inspector , glenn e. fishback .
a roof fall was discovered at spad # 147 in the # 1 entry . the fall was approx . 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7 1/2 ' high .
employee was sawing a timber with a bow saw , saw came out and cut him on the finger . had dr appt on 8/15/05 , returned to work 8/16/05
ee experienced pain in his left knee while walking . on 02/02/2011 ee had surgery on his left knee . it has been accepted as a work related injury .
ee stepped in gap in floor between kiln and hood platform while adjusting forklift mast .
ee was installing roofbolts . as he lowered the canopy , it hung on a roofbolt . when he swung theboom , the canopy came loose from the bolt and struck ee on top of the head .
ee was handing a 2 '' steel pipe down a ditch to another ee when he felt a muscle pull in his back .
employee was stripping forms . he slipped and fell backwards and the form fell on his leg . he did not report injury till 3 days later when he was crawling on rebar . he complained to supt . about some pain 6/14/07 .
ee was cutting a weld on a 30 '' x 8 ' x 1/2 '' section of steel plate when the steel plate moved , pinching the ee's right foot between the walkway and the steel plate . ee was wearing steel toed bo ots which save all of his toes .
injured was cleaning dirt from the back of the bit lug to put the snap-on ring on the insert . he cut his finger on the lug . he was taken to hospital where he received 2 stitches to the left in dex finger.y
affected area has weakness with low angle faults and water seepage in jointing and was closed off several weeks ago . roof fell sometime between 9/29 after 10 am and today 10/03 and was discovered during the preshift examination . cribs and post to be installed to prevent advance of fall .
hoist # 1 would not reset . msha was notified at 7:07 am , evacuation started at 7:05 am and completed at 7:18 am . the hoist was repaired at 7:30 am and the miners went back underground at 7:39 am . the hoist was tested before being put back into service . to prevent recurrence the pinion brake switches was adjusted .
ee was riding in bucket to shaft bottom . bucket hook struck ee on upper back .
ee came to work not feeling well . an ambulance was called and the ee apparently suffered a heart attack in the ambulance in route to the hospital .
ee was clearing trees with a 963 cat track loader he had stopped the loader and got off . when he got back on the loader he drove forward over a mound of dirt , as the loader traveled over the mound of dirt it tipped forward throwing ee forward into the mirror bracket .
employee was helping on the longwall set-up . while pulling cable he felt pain in his left shoulder . employee began losing time on 4/11/2008 .
working on belt using com-a-longs released tension on belt , which caused the com-a-longs to swing into his face striking his lip . ppe was not a factor , rules/regs was not a factor , miner knowledge was a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
none - ee was leaving the scale house to get back into his truck . he collapsed , 911 was called as fellow ee's administered cpr . 2 ambulances & 1 first responder arrived as did mayo 1. fillmore county sheriff also was there assisting . ee was not involved in the crushing or screening of pederson bros. he was strictly an over the road truck driver that delivered product to our custome
the ee was operating an underground loader clearing out a heading . he reports he was looking around the side of the operator's cab and he thinks he hit something in the roadway and struck his chin on the cab , resulting in a laceration . he was transported to er for evaluation and treatment . he received three sutures to repair the laceration .
the inj ee was in process of assisting with the loading of a roll of 54 '' belt into a scoop bucket.as he was standing next to scoop , a rib ( corner ) 24 '' x40 '' x18 '' fell & struck the ee on rt leg .
ee had her right middle finger caught in the door as it shut , resulting in a fracture to the finger .
a roof fall was discovered in the 3 north 3 mains , return aircourse , at crosscut 22 , between entries 3 and 4. the roof fall measures approximately 20 ' long , 16 ' wide , and 6 ' thick .
ee was checking pump starter to insure proper voltage . contractor had tied into wrong side of transformer . voltage was approx . 2400 volts , causing electrical burns .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 2 entry in the big daddy mains , 75 ' inby spad 634. fall measured 320 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8-10 ' thick . no equipment or injuries , passage of person was affected . area was developed 11/02 and roof support consisted of 4 ' resin bolts . state and federal agencies were notified immediately .
forkie handle ( jack handle ) hit him above l eye when changing bits . jack handle may have broke .
the employee reported to his on supervisor on 3/4/15 that he was experiencing pain in his elbow while taping a cable . the employee has 4 years of repetitive motion of the elbow performing maintenance activities such as pulling/pushing wrenches , swinging hammers , pull on cables/wires etc . he started missing work on 5/15/15 . he was diagnosed with lateral epicondylitis ( tennis elbow ) .
a roof fall occurred measuring 20 ' long x 10 ' wide x 10 ' high in 6 right cut through a 3 breaks inby spad number 1761. no equipment was involved , no ventilation was disturbed no injury was rep orted , and the fall will not be cleaned up .
emp raising the boom with the fast feed lever with right hand and holding 6 steels in the hole with his left hand . the end of the steel extended out of the hole 10 '' and as the boom was coming up to meet the end of the steel , the operator stated that the boom jumped & pushed his left hand up in the hole between the back and the turn table of the bolter .
employee was sawing off a section of reinforced rubber hose . on the last cut throught the hose , the sharp end of the spiral wire sprung out and punctured employee's work glove on his left palm . this caused a laceration on employee's left hand .
employee caught his finger between pinner head and plate . broke end of finger and laceration with stiches .
a fall of the foot occurred in the 1st south east sub mains ( # 4 unit ) inby the tailpiece in the # 1 entry throught the x-cut to the # 2 entry .
he was in a grader backing up and hit a rock and he said his head had hit the glass but he kept working . then at 10:30 am he was grading the road & hit another rock jolting his neck . he left t he job & went home . he called the office on nov 20 and said he was ok. then on nov 21 he called the office & went to family doctor .
the employee was cooking his dinner on the stove and the oil in the pan caught on fire . as the injured put out the fire , he burned his hand . the doctor treated the burn with prescription med ication .
initial reported as first aid only . on 4/2/2008 went to a restricted duty case and became reportable . had been seen by two previous doctors and released without treatment . was installling a new deck frame on # 6 screen tried to push deck into place . he felt that he may have strained a muscle in back of left shoulder .
employee was working on # 1 kiln stone incline feed belt skirting . after completing the job he walked down the south stairway . a few feet away from the stairs , he stepped on a stone with his ri ght foot and twisted his ankle . after going to the doctor , he was told it was fractured .
the electrical motor for the 100-ton hoist failed thus preventing the hoist to be used as a brakecar . the hoist operator was in the process of lowering longwall equipment when the motor fired inside and smoked . cause of this incident was shorting of motor .
electrical power was interrupted to the 3100 vent doors ; the crew attempted to open them manually . after proping the doors open , they unexpectedly shut and employee's feet were struck .
became reportable 9/19/05 ( 1st day missed due to inablitiy to work ) while shoveling loose coal along 6 n conveyor belt , ee twisted right knee
ee had the saddle in the vice right side up & was using a hammer & chisel to cut the bolts off . when the bolt cut his hand came in contact with the sharp ( worn ) edge of the saddle & cut his ha nd .
while working on the lower level of the primary plant to install a new tail pulley guard for c-1 , ee needed to clean the tail section of the materail that spilled off the conveyor belt . when he turned on the high pressure water hose , the rubber grommet on the hose was worn away thus causing the water nozzel to fly off and lacerated his left shin
ee was closing the cable reel compartment cover . the cover was stiff and as he pulled on it the cover broke loose and closed , catching his left thumb between the cable reel compartment and the cover . the incident caused a laceration to the left thumb requiring sutures . he did not miss any time and is working with sutures .
ee and another ee were putting strut on a r-35 euclid truck and ee was jacking the front of truck up and the jack jumped out from under truck catching his hand between truck and jack and broke first finger and maybe second finger on left hand .
roof fall 5th panel north , no . 2 entry , beginning 1 xcut from face , extending outby 200 ' . approx 200'l x 18'w x 5'-12 ' h .
ee was using an angle grinder when his left middle finger came in contact w/ the grinding wheel . received a laceration which required 3 sutures to close . after receiving medical attention , has not missed any work .
maintenance forman was using a chain hoist to lift replacement center drum on continuous miner head . the hoist slipped and fell onto his left hand . he finished his shift and then sought medical care . he was diagnosed with multiple fractures to the left hand . he has continued to work .
ee had finished loading railcar and was climbing down ladder fromt he platform over the loadout belt . he was on the rung above the catwalk when he fainted . ee does not remember laying on catwa lk . ee started vacation on 7-13-00 .
an unintentional fall occurred between the # 4 and # 5 entry of the 2nd main west at the 10+50 ' . the area was 50 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' . fall area was bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
received a hearing loss diagnosis for ee . ee was laid off on 8/25/14 .
ee has made a claim under our worker's comp alleging that he injured his back while lifting a 50 lb bag of block bond on 2/24/07 . he had not made any mention of injury that day to his supervisor or to his co-workers . it was 12 to 14 days before we learned he was seeking treatment . i then had to wait to hear from him to get details as he had had his phone number changed .
while walking by # 28 scoop tractor ee hit his left knee on the holding knob for the flinger duster .
employee went to remove lock out and turn breaker on . when he turned on the rod mill breaker it blew up blowing breaker doors open . he burnt his right arm and bruised right forefinger . he was taken to co dr and prescribed an antibiotic ointment for the burn .
an unplanned roof fall was discovered in north mains in the number one entry at 67 crosscut . the area fell between cribs and on cribs in an intersection . it measured 15 ' wide by 12 ' long & approximately 6 ' high at the highest point above the orgianl roof line .
removing shock off of mv-22 maintenance truck , employee pinched finger . finger tip was fractured and stiches were required to replace nail
a roof fall occurred in the 5th mains north , # 4 entry , inby spad 11+46 . the fall was inby an intersection , started with an abandoned overcast brow and traveled 25-30 ' inby . it measured approx . 17 ' x 30 ' x 8 ' high . the fall was outby all working sections .
employee was cutting a shock off a mantrip in the shop when the shock ruptured and burned him on his right arm and face . he was treated for second degree burns on his arm .
roof fall occurred in # 4 entry n.w . mains belt & track entry at spad # 12126 and extended 70 ' out-by & 22 ' wide & 12 ' high . area was supported with 4 ' x 6 ' resin rods .
at approx . 11 am , a contract ee & a millwright ee were in a man lift basket extended inside of the sma hopper-stilling shed . the contract ee was working on cutting a wear plate loose in the hopper . he was holding a torch in one hand & used a hammer with the other hand to knock a section of the plate loose . the impact of hammer blow vibrated . the torch ignited the coal dust .
50 ' x 19 ' x 5 ' rock fall on ellis mains in # 7 entry 60 ' inby spad 871 .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at approx 9:30 pm in the intersection of the # 6 entry to the right of survey station no . 1289. the fall was approx 4 ft high by 25 ft wide by 25 ft long .
wildland grass fire caused by a spark of a train burned about 90 acres . the fire was contained around 7:00 pm . local fire department assisted . all units were released at 10:20 pm ( mop-up completed ) . msha was called - message was left - was never called back .
loose rock fell from roof & struck employee on the rt . shoulder while loading a shot from the manlift . ee was examined at the hospital , he had torn ligaments in his rt . shoulder .
employee was filling 35 lb . 5 gallon buckets with material . he had pain in his lower right side of his abdomen .
while descending the stairs leaving the breakroom a mine foreman's right foot slipped from under him . he believes it may have been a wet stair or his foot simply landed wrong . he managed to catch himself on the handrail but his right foot slid towards his left foot . he was treated at a local er where it was determined he had broken his tibia at the ankle .
emerald coal resources lp was provided documentation claiming an employee of 13 years of experience sustained an occupational induced hearing loss while employed at the emerald mine . this claim is being evaluated by the mine operator .
injured man broke cut off valve for deluge fire spray . he turned the water off on the 6 inch line , when he bled the pressure off the line , it blew his hand into a pizza pan which was part of the bearing surface for roof support and recieved a cut to his finger .
a unplanned roof fall was discovered in 2b panel ( 11+40 ) xc # 16 entry # 6 . the fall was blocking the primary escapeway and had hv cable under it . approx length 18 ' , width 18 ' , height 6 ' .
ee was cleaning the magnet . the tray slipped spilling metal fragments and bolts onto belt . as ee was cleaning debris from belt piece of metal cut his finger .
ee was operating a jeep on track haulage when the jeep went off track causing the ee to hit head and left upper back . the continued to work till see by a doctor and was diagnosed with a broken rib on 3/31/17 and taken off work .
person was pinning top on off side of roofbolter when a rock fell knocking person down his leg went under drill pot while pot was coming down .
ee was unplugging a drain with a motorized snake . when reversing direction ee used right hand on the metal snake to guide it when his glove was caugh and dislocated his finger .
holding remote for shields while moving walking shield , rock fell pinning legs against a pallet of cribs ee continued to work . leg was still sore mri revealed small crack , his last day worked was 12/29/2011 .
employee stated ee was sitting on the back of the roof bolt machine in the # 6 entry on the # 1 section when a piece of draw rock approximately 9 '' wide x 35 '' long x 1.5 '' thick fell from between bolts from the mine roof and struck ee on the right hand and right knee . this resulted in a contusion , and three lost work days .
employee was using sledge hammer to hit cap piece to close inspection door on panline . missed cap piece and finger was cut when being caught between hammer handle and panline . sutures were required to close the laceration .
employee was pulling a shield and when he lowered the shield , the baselift blew out the threads of the cylinder , causing metal shards to strike employee in the arm .
ee was climbing down the ladder of a front end loader . the ladder was wet from rain . his foot slipped on a wet ladder rung and he twisted his right knee trying to catch himself from falling .
holding sledge hammer for another ee to tighten nut on omnicone crusher ee's sledge deflected off other sledge & hit inj ee in the eye . safety glass broke causing laceration to left eye
employee was removing scaffold board in 4th stage cyclone of the preheater vessel , when ee tripped over hose while carrying scaffold board , injuring ee's left knee .
ee states while throwing crib block from kneeling position he felt pop in right knee . he then experienced pain . he went later for medical treatment and started missing time .
ee finished loading a round and when the went to remove the remote from mine belt , finger contacted open box cutter causing a cut . stitches required to close the wound . ee released to full duty on next scheduled shift .
employee took parts to the galatia north portal . while using the forklift to put the parts on the cage , he tried to push the door open further while still on the forklift . the forklift rolled back and caught employee's left arm between the forklift canopy and door frame .
when employee bent over to load a bundle of roofbolts , he felt pain in his lower back .
emp was using a skilsaw when it jumped and cut his left little finger . emp received 7 sutures
ee stepped into feed hopper ( which was out of service ) to clean and slipped and twisted his ankle .
3/21/07 , ee reported pain in left shoulder while tossing a truck headrest to coworker . ee was seen by a dr who ret 'd ee to work on next shift . 5/21 ee off work due to pain . ee had rec 'd cortis one treatment in feb. ee has pre-exist condition & treated for pain prior to 5/21 report . determined likely to accumlated trauma disorder .
ee was squaring up belt to splice he was cutting toward himself the knife slipped , came off the belt and cut a 1.5 '' place above his right knee.ee drove himself to the hospital after the shift ended and rec . three stitches . ee rtw on his next shift with instructions to review the accident and task train his crew on the correct way to use a knife .
employee was positioning waterline to haul ug . a joint had unknowingly got into a bind & when he moved it , it sprang back & hit him in head creating a cut that required stitches .
a roof fall occured on south f # 6x # 1hdg outby feeder . fall was above anchorage 18 ' wide , 20 ' long and 6 ' high . no men or machines were injured , no ventilation or travel affected .
at 3:50 p.m. a roof fall was found . the fall was found at spad # 2781 , 3 breaks outby # 3 belt drive in # 2 entry measuring 20 ' x 20 ' x 20 ' . this fall was reported outside at 4:00 p.m. this fall will not be cleaned up according to superintendent . this area will be timbered and dangered off from all four sides . no injuries are associated with this fall .
ee was bolting top , when a piece of rock fell and hit him .
roof bolter operator was spotting bolt back thathad been dislodged from the roof . after drilling about 6inches of the hole , rock fell striking canopy then slid and hit operator .
employee was walking under the boom of his drill while doing preshift inspection and bumped his head . he then stumbled catching himself and straining his shoulder .
while putting material in blender using a shovel his left shoulder began to hurt . he did not report the incident until the following day . this has been a reccuring injury and might have been a preexisting condition . he had surgery on his shoulder on 09/28/2006 .
ee was hitting the neck of the finish mill with a sledge hammer ( because of a neck choke up ) trying to unstop the neck . cement falling from above got into his left eye . he was wearing safety glases at the time .
two employees were working on broken track when the pry bar slipped and the track fell on one's shoulder and collor bone .
in the process of assisting in the removal of teeth from a used loader bucket , a piece of metal broke off embedding in ee s leg .
while carrying a 123 lb . sheet of steel , with another ee , he sprained his shoulder , reinjuring it .
employee reports discomfort to right wrist/forearm area the employee believes secondary to shoveling during previous shift . did not report until 3-18-18. diagnosed with tenosynovitis . put on restricted duty .
snow on ground ee was walking down metal stair , slipped & fell straining thigh
employee was holding one end of a wire rope that is used to pull belting on convyors . the other end was attached to a fork lift and as the forks were raised it pulled on his arm .
ee was washing a haul truck on wash pad . he stepped off a short retaining wall onto a rock twisting left ankle .
employee backed truck into ballard , causing tightness in his lower to mid-back
on 5-15-09 ee was unloading coal , bending over swinging a sledge hammer to open unloading door when he felt a pain in lower back . after continued pain , was seen by our dr 5/21/09 , given pain meds & released to full work . 5/22/09 his condition worsened & he began to experience severe pain down rt leg . seen in er 5/23 & 5/25/09 . 5/26 his work status was listed as totally disabled .
ee was in a man-lift basket placing fencing material for pillar fill . he was using his right hand to operate controls while handling fence with his left hand . his rt thumb was resting on top o f control guard . as he raised the basket , his rt thumb was pinched between brow of the back severing most of the last joint on rt thumb . the bone from tip of thumb was surgically re-attached .
emp slipped on oily surface & twisted left knee while repairing hyd leak . note : this became lta on mar 7th due to employee having surgery on injured knee
we brought up coal mill a and the merrick belt caught fire . belt burned up and a little damage to belt structure . there were no injuries
ee was hooking up battery cables to a kawasaki loader . he did so improperly and the battery exploded into face and eye .
ee was holding a piece of metal in place to be welded . over the time period ee was exposed to welding flashes . therefore causing flash burns to his eyes .
employee was using a 2 ' long pry bar to open the inspection lid on the door of a usi crusher . he was pulling bar toward himself when the bar slipped striking employee in the right corner of his mouth . the corner of the employee's mouth was cut and required 4 stitches .
employee stepped across tounge of mobile mine office , bumped head on air conditioning unit protruding from wall causing injury . he was taken to the e.r . for treatment and stitches were used to close the wound .
ee was installing roof bolts when his glove ( leather ) was caught between the head ( drill ) and pinner steel dislocating the thumb on his right hand .
employee was installing 10 ' cable bolts on the 13 west head gate and smashed left ring finger between the shaft of the bolt and the mast of the roofbolter . restricted duty .
employee was helping make a belt splice in # 15 b belt . he stepped from the belt to get a tool , stepped on a lump of coal and twisted his right ankle .
he was walking across driveway toward the lab building after putting trash in dumpster . his right ankle rolled out from under him causing him to fall . he fractured and partially dislocated his right ankle . the driveway is level and covered with 1b stone .
moving steel and rolled a t brace on left foot resulting in contusion . x-rays negative . seven days restricted work . no lost time . restricted work provided by employer .
roof fall 2 north panel now active abandoned unit entry # 5 xcut # 5 . 35'l x 18'w x 19'h proped 4-way intersection .
ee was walking up the belt line when he slipped and hurt his right shoulder trying to stop his fall .
ee was lifting a 4x4x12 when he lost his balance and dropped the 4x4 . it bounced up and hit his shin .
ee climbed on very small step ladder to check level of hydraulic oil on haul truck . he fell from ladder landing on shoulder . he didn't think it was a reportable accident , but his shoulder cont inued to hurt and he sought medical treatment .
loading 80 lb bag of salt in spreader for snow melting on haul ramps/roads . picked up bag , hurt lower back .
after completing a sanding job on a piece of equipment , employee removed facial ppe , and felt irritation to his right eye . no days missed , no restricted work . final diagnosis given during follow up evaluation on 5-24-11 .
ee was kneeling on the mine floor , cutting a piece of 48 '' conveyor belt with a razor knife . the knife slipped out of the belt cutting ee's right leg , requiring 8 sutures .
ee was bolting in an intersection and became overheated . ee was taking to clinic and received iv fluids .
ee was initially injured on 5/22/02 but did not seek medical attention . he was carrying pinch valves up three decks of stairs to do maintenance work . ee then saught medical attention on 6/19/0 2 and was given a 3 week light duty restriction.he has since been returned to full duty as of 7/15/02 . ee was advised to use other means for lifting .
emp . slipped while getting in to truck and sprained his shoulder . emp . did not seek med . treatment until 12/27/2007 where he was given a prescription and restriction on left arm .
employee was bolting top , after he put the last bolt up he went to get up off knee's to move roofbolter up and when he stood up his right knee gave away . employee had surgery and started missing on 06-16-04 .
ee claims that he began having lower back pains after he got home after he had driven a 1998 case front end loader model 621b all day . he continued to operate this machine daily until 4-3-02 w hen the pain became unbearable . he was treated tat pro med clinic and restricted from duty until 4/8/02 at which time he was released to full duty .
employee was attempting to unplug a welding machine that was being used to weld inside a calciner . his hand slipped and his left pinky finger was cut on a jagged piece of the plug . he was not wearing gloves at the time .
unimin operator was driving loader w/shovel loaded adn elevated over 6 ft. consequently , the shovel impaired his vision . he drove directly into our mack dump truck , plowing into cab of truck a nd above the cab . my driver had right-of-way andblowed horn etc . the loader crushed cab of truck , severly injuring my driver .
heavy lifting may have caused a hernia while performing maintenance tasks at the rock plant . the employee did not report the injury to his supervisor until 8/20/12 , at which time he was taken immediately to simi health center , where he is currently being referred to a surgeon for treatment . until then , the employee is on restricted duty with no lifting over 15 lb .
employee was standing on steel platform designed to catch slag . platform broke loose from weld under weight of ee and other employee . employee hit back on on roll press housing leading to bruises on back .
employee was helping hang miner cable when ee felt pain in left groin area . this resulted in a hernia .
at 10:27 am ee reported a roof fall at crosscut 30 between # 6 and # 4 entries , taking out intersection in # 5 entry .
employee reported left shoulder began hurting while driving truck . initial diagnosis was strain/sprain . mri revealed arthritis , bone spurs , and slap tear . none of these conditions are a result of employees work activities . employee was prescribed therapy beginning 11/27/12 . advised by msha denver to report incident anyway .
ee was going down a small sand ramp to reload . lost control of his truck which caused his truckto bounce hard and high . the hard bounce caused him to strain his back , neck and shoulder .
ee was climbing the access ladder of the rock truck when he felt a pop in his left knee . the knee was sprained .
ee was changing a starter on the 1990 gmc pick-up , when a foreign object fell in his left eye . the ee was wearing eye protection when the incident occurred . prescriptions were given .
the company was notified 7/9/13 that ee qualified for a occupational pneumoconiosis claim .
ee was cleaning top of punch plates on # 1 shaker , as he hit rock it busted in several pieces and came back and hit ee on his right leg at the shin area . ee did not go to dr until 10-31-01 .
ee was helping splice a shuttle car cable when his knife slipped off the cable causing a laceration to his finger on his left hand .
eh ee alleges he was stepping off a sample pile of rock and his foot slipped causing his knee to twist and turn outwards .
employee was lowering jackhammer to ground from l6 platform in shale bin area . the jackhammer slipped and the employee caught the tool in order to keep it from striking the ground . ee suffered a strained left elbow . ee was treated with first aid until ee was given cortisone shot and meds on 7/27/17 .
clearing weeds & small trees , pushing them up a hill . when he reached the top of the hill , there was a dozer approaching . he lunged forward and put his arms out , striking the mirror with his lt forearm . no sutures , given rx . released from care 8/21/15 .
individual was swinging a 8 lb . sledge hammer making a belt splice when experiencing a pop in the right shoulder . this did not involve any compliance issues , no equipment involved . this did not involve proficiency or attitude . all protective items relating to clothing and protective devices were being utilized .
while exiting a haul truck after completing instumental work , the employee slipped from muddy boots and caught his left pinky on the upright to the handrail .
employee was moving mon-o-rail that was stacked on top of the stageloader and his grib slipped and he piniched his finger between the mon-o-rail and the stageloader deck . cause of this injury was safety awareness . compliance with rules/regs was not a factor , protective equipment was being worn ( gloves ) , miner proficiency a factor , mining systems could be a factor .
a non injury roof fall occured at x cut 15 2nd east mains # 3 entry . the fall measure 6 ' high 24 ' wide and 40 ' long . this fall was int he primary escapeway .
ee was bolting with jackleg when machine fell forward and ee tried to hold the machine from falling down and pulled a groin muscle in doing so .
employee's recent audiogram results indicated that he had experienced a loss of hearing in one or both ears . the level of loss is such that he had experienced a loss of 25 dba or more in one or more ear . this loss is in comparision to his baseline to audiogram here at san juan mine .
fall in intersection on 1a belt ( crosscut between # 3 & 4 entry ) - brk 10-1-a fall was approximately 18w x 40l x 4-5h .
ee lost grip on bar used to load belting and barfell striking his right foot .
ee was driving key wedge down in the jaw crusher using a piece of steel shaft & a sledge hammer . a piece of steel came off shaft where it was being struck with a hammer . the piece of steel went into right leg above knee on inside of leg .
ee had pulled his truck onto the dump area & started backing up to the dumping site . as he was backing back the road split & he backed between the split of the roads the truck turned over ont o its side
employee was cutting a piece of pipe with a cutting torch when he lost his footing - when he grabbed for the pipe he passed the torch over the back of his left hand burning his fingers . he was wearing gloves , but not his company issued ppe pair of welding gloves .
man was riding mantrip felt pain in back .
ee was assisting pulling a belt togather and he stepped over the pull cable , the chain on a sheave broke the cable striking him in the lower leg causing a break to the leg .
sperry well drilling co. was drilling a well for a customer and drilled into the mine . water entered the mine through the 6 '' hole . the hole was plugged and grouted .
ee was assisting with the lifting of a 12 '' plastic pipe elbow when he experienced pain in his low back . the incident was reported to his supervisor on 5/12/03 . he was examined by the authorized provider the same day and physical therapy was prescribed and performed .
ee stepped on mud while walking on catwalk slipped & fell 7'8 '' he hit his head on the ground causing a laceration of about 11/4 '' long . this reauiried sutures ee stepped over a hand rail to an area not designed for human traffice
ee was helping raise up guard rails on scales at the load out . one ee picked up their end of pipe and when the other ee picked up their end , it slipped out of their hands . the pipe fell and struck the ee in the right knee , requiring 8 stitches .
fire lasting longer than 30 mins . after discovery burned grass , hdpe pipe , and power poles near cic . no injuries , no environmental release , no cyanide issues & no outside resources needed . fire was caused by arcing on a jumper insulator on a line pole in an area where vegetation is dry . 3 water trucks responded ( 1 put out fire , 1 on hot spots , and 1 on stand by ) .
employee was helping with pressing a new bearing into a roller mill roll body . ee & co-worker were using a portapower chained to the roll body . this chain is a load bearing chain but too much torque was applied & the chain broke & struck ee's right foot on top just behind the steel toe . x-ray reveals broken bone ( one ) in top of foot . resulted in hard cast/light duty ( no lost time ) .
employee was granted an award from wv workers ' compensation division for occupational hearing loss .
employee overreached and felt pain in lower back , no lost work days , no restrictive duties . employee no longer works for zeotech corporation .
was cleaning packed clay and rock from grizzley on screen with a pick . when upper back muscle tighten to a hardness causing pain .
ee was dropping out a bad piece of trail cable & putting good cable in a junction box . as he was going to the box with the good cable he tripped & fell twisting his rt . knee . ee was placed on restricted duty .
ee was picking up some expanded metal when it caught on a ladder and cut his thumb .
cut left hand when installint valve on 1 '' hose . stitches required .
employee was installing a starter on a shield hauler . ee was on top of the machine rubbing back against the roof . during this time some dirt got into ee's right eye . employee finished the shift and went for medical treatment later that evening .
roof fall occurred at the # 1 portal # 3 track at the 5 x-cut . fall was 40 ' l. x 17 ' w. x 10 ' h .
ee was roof bolting on # 4 unit , # 8 entry , crosscut 18 when a piece of rock fell , striking him on the neck and shoulders . ee did not sustain any fractures , but missed work on 11/7/06 .
employee stated that he was washing on the slope . he stepped on a mandoor that gave way causing him to fall . he was diagnosed with a rotator cuff tear . his first last work day did not occur until 7/20/06 due to surgery .
the employee was performong maintenance on a screen , he stood up and stepped on a nut cover - rolling his right ankle .
ee was pulling roof bolt off pinner and had his hand on end of bolt . ran bolt into rib with his hand on the end , smashing end of finger .
operating a walk-through bolter installing roof bolts at the face , ee was pushing a roof bolt into the drilled hole , the plate slid down and struck ee on right forearm causing a contusion . ee continued to work performing normal occupation without restrictions until surgery was conducted to repair nerve damage to ee's forearm . ee began missing time on 10-03-2017 .
employee was on top of the railroad car with his harness intact and roped . he lifted the pole into the air , at that point the power line arced a discharge towards his pole . he stood straight up and fell off the railcar . received 3 burns , chest , right arm , left leg . the electricity exited his body through his left ankle .
enterprise mining company llc was notified on 4/1/2011 that ee , was awarded a hearing loss . employee continues to work in his present job classification , at this time
ee was standing on mobile lubrication trailer in the process of filling a grease tank at the crusher when a pressurized grease hose burst an startled the ee . he jumped forward from the trailer to the ground and struck his left knee on the ground .
ee was shoveling spillage from the floor behind # 1 shaker when he experienced pain in his left shoulder .
employee was on his knees driving spads in the bottom to hold down line curtain .
ee slipped on a rock and twisted right knee . given a brace for 2 weeks . lost time .
on 6/2/01 ee began feeling pain in his neck & shoulder unable to work for the pain he sought medical treatment . this has been classified as an occupational illnes due to his job & past medical records
ee was pushing up on a run thru and felt a sharp pain in rt shoulder . ee stated that pain progressed through the shift . ee requested to see dr. ee was prescribed physical therapy . this is being submitted as a medical treatment .
ee was hanging curtain , bent over and twisted pulling something in lower part of back . he continued to work until 9/25/02 when he consulted a doctor .
ee was installing a transmission on a d9 track dozer.finger got caught between parts .
ee was using a slate bar to remove a piece of rock from off of the continuous miner when he injured his back . the ee has continued to work until 4/23/04 at which time he began losing time.last day worked , 4/23/04 .
emp injured lower back while picking up a hydraulic wrench .
ee was carrying air hoses down a short flight ofstairs ( 3-steps ) from the preheater tower when he missed the last step . he fell to his left andtwisted his lt. knee . he was diagnosed with a torn acl and meniscal tear and was operated on march 1 , 2002 , to repair the damage .
a fall of roof occurred at the # 5 bk crosscut # 2 - # 3 entries on the 30 butt section . fall was outby working section . no injuries or equipment involved . fall was 20 ft in length , 16 ft in width and 8 ft in height .
ee was operating a haul truck . he was backing upand couldn't see . he stuck his arm out of the side of the canopy to turn around and look back , when his arm got pinched between the rock rib and his truck . he was transported to the e.r . for evaluation and treatment . he was diagnosed with a hairline fracture of the arm .
ee stated that he was backing truck onto the stockpile ramp to dump coal , when the hoist nest broke , causing the bed to shift , laying truck partically on its side .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 12-10-06 in 002 intersection , # 5 entry and spad no . 10860. the fall measured 20 ' in length , 20 ' width and 01 - 6 ' height .
ee was replacing the broken handle on his personal chipping hammer in the north shop . while using a bench vise to secure the new handle in position , ee used another small hammer to drive the wedge pin into the top of the new handle at the head of the chipper . the 2 hammer heads made contact , causing several small pieces of metal to break off and went into top of ee's left hand .
ee sprained ankle while walking to work area , he stepped on a small bolt causing ankle to turn under .
ee was mounting a doxer when his footing slipped and he fell , while holding onto the handrail . ee complained of lower back pain at the end of his shift , ee was diagnosed with a sprain to his lower back .
ee stepped into a pile of hydrated lime & got some inside his right boot . he did not notice until he got home that it irritated his skin around the top of boot & caused a blister around his ankle . he was given bandage & pain meds he was offered light duty & refused . when told we had an office job for him he quit after 8 days off . `` blister ''
examiner found a rock fall located 4th south west submains outby unit # 1 in the primary escapeway . ( 22+60 ) xc # 30 , entry # 4. it was approx 35 ' in length , 19 ' in width , greater than 6 ' in height .
ee was replacing u-joint in drive line and hit his thumb w/hammer causing an open wound requiring stitches .
while dismounting the bucket loader via the ladder , ee slipped and banged his thigh against the steel step .
employee finished bolting & while wiping face with a rag , ee felt something in left eye & ee stated ee got it out . at 4:00 am it started bothering ee again , ee reported it , was seen by site medic , referred to the er , then onto a opthamologist where a rust ring was removed & restrictions were given .
the employee was lifting and moving a wood pallet , which had a 50lb blower on it , when it slipped . the right middle finger of employee was caught in between two wood pallets . the employee sustained a ( r ) long finger crush injury with suturable lacerationand open distal phalanz fracture .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 2 gas mine at brk . # 3 in the # 4 belt entry near spad # 1174. the fall measured 25 ' long x 20 ' wide x 15 ' high . no injuries were reported .
a roof fall occurred on the 2 west submain , # 1 entry between # 13 and # 14 crosscuts near spad no . 8457. the fall was 70 ' long , 20 ' wide & 4 ' high . the area was bolted with 4 ' point anchor bolts . a small portion of the fall will be cleaned up to allow access to the weekly inspection of a seal . the rest of the area will be timbered off .
geologic conditions consisting of grey shale top mixed with stack rock . cover of 330 ' , area was bolted with 6 ' fully grouted resin bolts with hole boards and 12 ' non-tension cable bolts as supplement . fall was approximately 16 ' by 16 ' and 10 ' in height . notified msha hotline .
operating jackhammer , ee felt something snap in wrist ; momentarily lost control of jackhammer .
while assisting another employee in the removal of an electric motor , the jack cable holding it in place slipped.the injured went to catch the motor so it would not hit other ee . his finger go t caught between the motor & motor base . this resulted in a cut to his little finger .
the ee was welding in the tub of the marion 8050 # 124 dragline and was chipping the slag off of the weld . a piece of welding slag flew off and over the top of his safety glasses and landed in his left eye . he was taken to the clinic , where the slage was removed and he was released to return to work with no restrictions . no time lost .
a surface brush fire was discovered on mine property near the neely pump . pictorial evidence gathered the following day indicated that vandals may have been burning off the insulation to a section of pump cable . evidence from nearby spectators indicate two young men on 4-wheelers left the scene just moments earlier . the nearby fire department extinguished the brush fire .
the employee was hanging waterline during a belt move , when the employee let the tugget down ee was using ee hand slipped and lacerated hand on the side of a roof strap . the employee was wearing all the appropriate ppe and did not violate any laws or company policies .
emp was loading and unloading tank cars in extreme hot and humid weather conditions . he became nauseated and sick . he started feeling dizzy and fellow workers applied cold compresses and called for an ambulance for further medical care . he was treated at emergency room and told to stay home next day and to drink lots of fluids .
ee's hand got caught between the hoist cable and the kelly bar and two fingers were severed .
ee was riding in on mantrip , when mantrip ran over rock in haulway , ee stated he hit his head on canopy of mantrip and came down hard on tailbone .
a fire occurred on the # 6 belt flight that was found at approx . 4 : oo a.m. all persons were evacuated from the mine and fire fighters were pulledin by state & federal agencies .
ee was removing rock from syntron feeder in tunnel when the rock fell onto bar it pinned his thumb on right hand against concrete wall .
while repairing the cable trac on the novamac drill , operator fell approximately 7 ' to the ground . strap broke causing operator to lose his balance .
a fire was discovered in the tall grass above the 1north highwall at 2pm . the grass fire was not extinguished within 30 minutes . a motor grader and mine fire fighting equipment had the fire contained and out shortly after the 30 minute timeframe . at no time were miners or mine equipment and structures at risk of injury .
ee was hosing down sump . he slipped on ice and fell , bruising his ribs . he was released for full duty on 1-13-01 , however , the dr. told him to not exert himself for a few days , so i figure its restricted duty .
ee was hanging belt chain's and foot twisted and sprained left knee .
ee was working in the # 2 intake entry close to the fan shaft . cleaning up and re-bolting a slate fall , bolter had been backed out of the fall area , ee and a co-worker were under supported top evaluating the next step . co-worker walked away , staying under supported top . as ee started to follow co-worker , he was struck by a rock originating from the fall area .
employee was stepping off a man trip ( school bus ) twisted his left ankle and fell to the ground . employee was taken to brookwood medical center and the diagnosis was left ankle sprained . employee expected to be off until 1/12/12
employee was operating manbus on west track and got something in his eye .
croell employee was coiling electric cord and strained his right shoulder .
employee was performing his normal job duties with several other employees . while shoveling coal on the off-walkway side of the belt outby the stageloader , the employee fell to the ground . the other employees stated he was unconscious and started performing cpr . he never regained consciousness and was later pronounced dead . the apparent heart attack doesn't appear to be work-relat
ee was picking rocks off the catwalk when the screen overflowed and a rock hit him in the shoulder .
ee was operating continuous miner in # 4 heading when piece of rock fell striking him btwn shoulders & lower back . he was about 40 ' outby . rock fell out between rib ( right rib ) & rib bolts . may have strained muscles in neck & lower back , acc
employee was powdering a room . an anfo loading air hose became stuck . the employee was working to free the hose when the hose became free and pushed the employees hand into the rail of the basket on his piece of equipment .
the employee is mexican and communication is almost impossible without an interpretor . he alleges his eye was swelling because of the heat . he could not give a date for injury . he went to the doctor without telling his supervisor and a few days later reported it as work related . he saw the doctor on 7/13/00 and brought back a note stating not to return to work until 7/16/00 .
an unintensonal roof fall occurred at 65 wall int he old belt entry in west . the fall measured approx . 30 ft long x 16 ft wide x 10 ft high . no injuries or equipment damage .
he was climbing down a ladder from the operator station on the iroc portable crusher . he was on the bottom step , he put his foot on the ground & twisted his ankle on a rock .
ee assisted with an underground survey and after the work was finished ee noticed mile in the shower what seemed licke a hernia cause is unknopwn but ee suspected that carrying the surveying g ear in a crouched position may have caused the hernia .
employee was assisting in servicing truck . he was in the process of passing an air filter to another serviceman for installation . the other guy dropped the used filter it struck him in the hea d. seven stitches was utilized to close the wound .
ee and coworker were attempting to pry a section of `` eico trac '' on longwall face . the slate bar slipped and fell into the face conveyor . it hit a flight and swung out , striking ee in left ribs .
ee went to see a dr on 8-21-01 and was taken off work . when ee stood up from welding , he backed into a piece of hot angle iron with his l elbow .
cleaning inside railcars with a pressure washer and the pressure washer contacted the side of right foot causing a hole in boot and a laceration to right foot .
ee was pulling piece of draw rock in # 5 entry , had a piece of drill steel laying on head of bolter . pulled rock & it hit the piece of drill steel causing it to hit him in left side of face . mi ssed 1 day because of late doctors appointment .
after ee had taken a load of computers over to ( by cart ) the plant offices and unlopaded them she states she felt pain in her lower back & upper left leg . she sought medical attention on 2-26. dr. stated aggravation of pre-existing injury t upper leg . ( restricted duty ) .
ee stated he didn't feel well . he was having difficulty breathing , said his chest felt tight , his arms & hands were numb . he was sweating . ambulance arrived within ten minutes . while waiting for ambulance he was sitting next to the ice machine with the door open to cool off . prior to not feeling well , he was using a hand grinder to smooth the edges on some metal plates .
a roof fall occured in the 1st s.e.mains from entry 0 to entry 1 @ survey station 27+50 . the fall measured 90'long x 18.5'wide x 9'thick . this area had been bolted with 9'doublelock & 6'fully grouted bolts . all approaches to this area have been timbered .
try to empty silo , opened port to remove lumps and material flushed out into face . jack hammering lumps materal disoldged and flushed into face .
employee walked by a drill press and brushed thedrill press causing a steel pin to roll off and land on her toe .
on my weekly return run i discovered a roof fallin # 9 room from the face out by 60 ' from # 117010intersection , there was a mud slip from # 8 room which was bolted with 4 ' and 6 ' bolts all other had 3 ' bolts . the fall was approx 60 ' long 18 ' wide and 5-12 ' high .
ee was picking up clay balls off conveyor belt , felt back pull and start hurting .
while adjusting the wireline , employee pinched his finger between the wireline and the pully , resulting in a cut and bruised finger .
employee stepped out of the diesel locomotive ee was operating to open a track switch . as ee did , ee stepped on a flat wood switch tie and rolled ee's left ankle . employee was diagnosed with a sprain . employee didn't violate any regulations but failed to watch where ee was stepping . was wearing required ppe and is properly trained .
while doing a screen change on a rotex mineral separator , an operator was tightening a bolt with a wrench . the wrench slipped and the operator's hand contacted an edge on the equipment . the operator suffered a laceration on right hand ( third finger ) that required 4 stitches .
ee slipped on ladder to bulk bins , & twisted his right knee
injured stated he was operating the 4100 demag shovel in the pit area when the seat . slipped out of position causing a jerking motion . the motion caused an injury to his lower back .
ee was cutting the linkage on the cage of the crusher when a rock came down the chute bouncing off the rotor and through the opening striking the ee on the head , causing a laceration which required stitches , and/or staples .
while palletizing rock , crossboard broke at joint allowing rock to fall on rt . foot . employee did not feel it was hurt bad enough to go to the dr. until 9/05/05 . the dr. x-rayed his ankle & found the bone on the ankle was fractured . they put his foot in a boot & told him to work modified duty .
the ee was walking to the section , he tripped on the cable ( for battery charger ) that was lying on the bottom , causing him to fall striking his right rib cage against the charger . note the ee's last day at work was 9-16-04 .
injured rt . knee when lifting engine hood during a pre-operational inspection of a fuel/lube truck . the preferred location to raise the hood is directly in front of the truck . when ee pulled the hood forward to open the hood , it traveled past normal open position forcing ee to the ground . this was due to a retaining pin that apparently vibrated out of the cable/spring device .
ee was pulling crusher , stepped thru hole in cat walk , landed on right knee . cut/scraped right knee . currently working under restricted work activity . note : currently employed in welding shop-working at smyrna quarry day of injury .
employee was operating a loader and shovel . employee did not report having complications till end of shift and only filled out a c-1 . on oct 21 , 2018 employee complained of lower back pain and wanted to be scene by a doctor .
ee was helping two other employees cut the bands on a bundle of screens . when ee cut the bottom band the band sprang back and struck him in the left hand resulting in 3 stitches .
while unloading the shaft liner plate from the carrier , the form that was tied off to a tugger raised unexpectedly and pinched the employees thumb between the liner plate and the cross beam on the galloway .
received medical notes on 09/27/11 . ee was working in a pipe rack connecting steel when he lost his balance and fell , caught by his harness and lanyard .
the mentioned mine has experienced a non-injury un-intentional roof fall outby the 002 working section located between # 7 and # 8 entries approximately 15 cross-cuts outby the working section.the fall is 20 ' wide , 25 ' long and 6 ' high with laminated sandston and shale . the are was initially supported with 60 '' 3/4 fully grouted rods .
setting up for a job on # 6 kiln burner pipe and parked they 're truck along the east side of the bldg . next to # 6 cooler . at approx 2:40am injured was handling a welding lead cord from the back of the truck to another ee . he kicked a pallet out of his way and he stepped down hard , fell and twisted his back and hip . medical treatment w/restrictions until full return 5/28/09 .
the fall occured in the # 3 entry approximately 1600 feet from the surface on 1-a belt roadway . fall is about 40 ' x 20 ' x 2 to 4 feet thick in a remote neutral area and will be timbered off .
ee was setting posts and when ee bent over to pick up a post , felt pain in the lower right portion of back . muscle pull
while stepping down from the dozer , ee stepped in a hole twisting his ankle .
employee stated ee was exiting the connex box storage trailer when ee slipped on snow/ice causing ee to catch self in a split .
ee reported that he was being treated for tendonitis of his left shoulder .
injured ee and witnesses were hanging miner cable and waterline at the overcast construction areas . he stated he lifted the cable into a hanger and felt a pulling and burning sensation in his lower abdomen .
on january 17 , 2006 , ee was working on a platform inside the kiln feed hood and allegedly experienced knee pain when someone stepped on the scaffold and caused him to tense up . this incident did not become msha reportable until 7/11/06 , when he had surgery . he did not miss work before that date .
emp was picking up rocks from the road when he stepped on one and sprained his ankle .
ee was roof bolting when a rock 4 '' x 4 '' x 1 '' fell from the roof and struck ee on the upper lip . 5 sutures were required to close the laceration .
ee stated he was helping unload 6 '' metal pipe when he got his finger caught between two pieces of pipe . this resulted in a laceration and fracture to his finger . first lost work day occurred 3 /8/00 .
employee was removing flights from an apron feeder and was using a hook and jarred his shoulder . he visted the clinic ten days later .
employee picked up a 1-1/2 '' water hose with a spray nozzle attached to it and began pulling it up some stairs . as he started pulling , his finger came in contact with the end of the hose clamp . as his finger passed over it , the clamp caused a 1 '' laceration of his left index finger . employee was taken to poh medical ctr where he was given a tetanus shot and 4 stitches .
msha inspector was making a routine inspection and came upon 2 falls in the old 1st right headings one break inby spad # 657 , one in intersection of # 3 entry and one in intersection of # 5 entry . the fall in # 5 measured approx . 20 x 50 x 8. the fall in # 3 measured approx . 20 x 30 x 8 .
a fall of roof occurred in the south west sub main 6-7 entry , # 30 corsscut . the roof fall was approximately 20 feet in length x 10 feet in width x 7 feet thick . the area was supported with 6 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
on 06/30/2016 employee sustained a strain to lower back when moving a 55 gallon drum with a cart . employee was initially treated conservatively , when that did not resolve the strain physical therapy ( pt ) was prescribed .
ee was pulling a hydraulic jack around the section power center with 2 other ee's trying to get the jack to the longwall face . ee stated he felt pain inhis lower back .
ee was removing a worn bit from a bit block on the cutter drum on the shearer . he was using a chisel to free the bit . when it came free the case slipped and his pinky finger and ring finger ca me into contact with a sharp edge on the bit block .
hoist got caught into upper track limit while slinging some pipe . electricians did some trouble shooting . they called g.l.tiley and associates ltd in canada . they got on line and reset the computer .
ee was pulling a 4-wheel cart loaded with cementblocks and stepped in a hole . he twisted his left knee .
stepped on a rock and fell hitting a piece of metal . right foor went under the edge of some metal .
ee completed welding task to area of primary jaw hopper . removed welding hood to locate different area to weld . used welding glove as a shield rather that hood to tack weld area . ( retrained ee ) .
ee stated he was setting down int he lunch room and something got in his eye .
ee was assisting changing puddles on a gravel plant log washer . ee was running main shaft by hand to align next row of mounts for puddle installation . while ee was turning shaft his left middl e finger was pinched between pulley and drive belt .
an unintentional roof fall was found by mine examiner one break inby spad 1039 in the # 7 entry of # 1 se mains at approximately 11:45am . fall measured 18x24x6 1/2 . all approaches have been cribbed/timbered and dangered off . ventilation not interrupted . mmu's in non-producing status since august 16,2013 .
ee states he was tightening a bolt when the ratchet he was using slipped off head of nut and pulled back into his tooth causing the tooth to chip & break in half .
the roof started to show signs of failure . the area was then cribed off .
ee started to drive a split set bolt . he turned on jack leg drill . the split set bolt jumped off driver on jack leg drill resulting in split set bolt falling , striking him on the left side of his face . 12/2/05 : amended to state that this was a medical procedure to stitch wound on face - 1 stitch .
rock fall 2 1/2 brks inby spad 1278 # 5 entry ne mains 2nd lift . roof fall was received on 3/8/02 .
employee was working with other employee on changing out a bad kiln trunion wheel . the wheel was in place and they were putting the caps on with the crane when one of the caps slipped catching his finger under the cap . this broke his small finger in his left hand .
ee was building a deck . when he bent down to get a block , he knocked a rod off another block . the rod came down and cut his right index finger .
employee undercut the highwall causing it to come down on the bucket jolting the loader . the employee was ok that night . employee was sore the next day and asked for a few days off . he went to his doctor and could not identify any issues just sore and limitation of range of motion . the stiffness continued to get worse and we sent to workers compensation on 6/29/2012 .
ee felt sharp pain in lower left side of back & left leg while shoveling around belthead .
on 04/06/2017 , the ee in question reported that they had hyperextended their right knee while relocating a pump but continued working unaffected by the incident . it was later determined that the ee had torn the acl and meniscus of the right knee . ee reported to work on restricted duty on 06/08/2017 following corrective procedure on the knee .
employee was moving shovel cable and two hours later had back pain - this became reportable on thursday , december 9 , when the doctor prescribed physical therapy - no resticted duty or lost time .
employee took vehicle to lundgren motors for vehicle repair . as he exited the drivers door he slipped and fell . doctor visit of 3/13/08 indicates hair line fracture with restrictions of 5 lbs lifting . next appointment is 3/27/08 . we will need to file an amended copy at a later date once restrictions have been removed .
ee caught his left arm between rail coupler and supply motor while cvoupling up rail car that caus a fracture .
ee pulled water truck under fill pipe . he did not apply park brake or have truck in gear . the truck started to drife and ee ran after truck , slipped and fell , injuring his right shoulder and a rm .
ee was holding a square on rebar structure to be welded . witness struck an arc when the mig wire deflected off structure into thigh . hot wire caused burn . ee applied first aid & returned to wo rk . several days later , thigh became red & irritated , sought medical attention . dr. prescribed antibiotics .
roof fall # 3 entry between break 17 and 18 of the 2-left submain , initial fall 20 ' wide , 40 ' long and 5 ' in height above bolted anchorage ( 42 '' ) no one injured , fell on conveyor belt and belt structure . did not affect ventilation or escapeways .
ee said he backed over a rock while tracking a slope .
changing around pully to charge broken belt dirt fell into his left ear .
ee was making a splice in # 8 belt . he was cutting belt against a belt square , when he accidentally cut his right index finger .
ee was using 1/2 '' drill , drilling out fluid bed dryer grid . drill jammed , causing the drill and ee's r wrist to continue in a clockwise motion . twisting caused wrist to rapidly go into strained position , causing wrist strain . wrist was immobilized with a splint , thus constituting msha reportability .
the ee was walking from the van to the cic building when he slipped on some ice . he fell backwards and hit his head . he was seen by a dr. and was released to full duty . on 1-24-01 he complaine d of having pain and wanted to see a dr. again . at that time the doctor released him to light duty .
using ballpeen hammer to drive out connecting link rc160-4 roller chain . piece of pin sheared off and entered right thumb .
a roof fall occurred on 11-14-03 in the rooms from 3 right to 4 right to the # 6 entry at spad no . 751. the fall was 40 ' long , 16 ' wide , 12 ' high , in a 4 way intersection . roof control used was 6 '' fully grouted resin bolts with 2 rows of post . date of development was oct 24 , 2003 .
on 1-9-02 , ee was operating a loader , which collided with a truck , due to muddy conditions . at the time of the incident , ee did not seek medical car , but on 1-28-02 , saw dr. who diagnosed a me dial meniscus tear toe the right knee . he was t aken off work on 2-19-02 and will have surgery .
a roof fall was found at 9:45 pm on 10/14/03 at xc 18 entry 3 main south intake . the fall in a four way intersection measured 40'long , 18'wide and 15'high . area had been mined mid 1983 , and wa s supported with 6 ' full resin pins . no injury resulted . there is no plan to clean fall up .
on 03/04/17 , mechanic was walking in weld bay to retrieve a piece of pipe when employee ran into the boring bar that was set up on a bucket , striking self in the mouth breaking a tooth . initially seen by onsite pa , on 03/06/17 employee saw a dentist for definitive diagnosis/treatment plan ; given a temp . cap , full work release , instruction to follow up with personal dentist .
3 south longwall set-up . ee removing cover on motor , pulling down on wrench , wrench slipped off bolt and he cut his hand on motor stuffing box . 1 1/2 inch laceration , 5 stitches to close wound .
ee was climbing down the excavator and slipped . he worked until 6/29 and said he was having pain . doctor put ee on restrictions of no lifting more than 10 pounds on 6/29 thus constituting msha reportability .
operator stuck hand into air conditioner fan in top of cab . possible disorentation , refused drug screen at hospital .
ee was using an air impact tool to remove a nut off of a bolt . the air impact tool slipped off of the nut and struck the ee on his right wrist . on 8/05/05 , he was diagnosed with a closed fracture of the right carpal bone . restricted duty : no use of left hand .
employee slipped on a set of steps but did not fall . he began to complain with lower back pain . on 12/9/2010 he was seen by a specialist and released back to work with no injury listed . the em ployee did not return to work and sought a second and third opinion and was placed off work by a clinic doctor . employee did not have contact with employer until late april 2011 .
# 37 hoist at buick surface went down due to loss of field excitation on generator . 5:30 am hoist was running again and put back in service . msha was notified when hoist was put back in service .
ee was outside observing a/c unit when she turned and lost her footing and fell to ground . used hands to break the fall .
removing motormount off engine of backhoe # 75. air wrench didn't turn off ; bolt came out causing motormount to slash right index finger . sutures required .
employee had parked a cat 938 at the service dock for service . he decided to clean his front glass & stepped out onto the top of the wheel fender . as he finished , he grabbed the top of the light housing on the fender & it broke . he jumped to the ground when he lost his balance . originally a knee sprain . did not miss work until 7/7/10 for arthoscopic surgery
employee was attempting to step off a kobota tractor and did not look at where he was stepping . as a result , the employee stepped onto a medium sized rock and rolled his left ankle as he stepped down .
inspecting equipment , stepped on piece of debri twisting right ankle .
ee and partner were using a jackleg drill for installation of rock bolts . while pulling hard on the jackleg to extract the drill steel from the hole the steel suddenly pulled free causing ee to fall backwards and right thumb got caught between the jackleg and a concrete slab causing crushing injuries to the thumb .
ee was exiting truck when he slipped & fell injuring lower back & buttocks .
neutral entry-5 south submains . man was walking down entry and fell . injured right hand and wrist .
ee was putting mill liners in & was trying to remove spitzers w/a hammer & chisel to make room for the last liner.chisel kicked back , hit right lens of his approved safety glasses , causing cracks accross the lens depositing particles of safety glass into eye.ee went to er & was given prescription and rtw with no restrictions .
ee was diagnosed with pneumoconiosis by doc on 9/8/2013 by a chest x-ray . i received the letter by email on oct 16 , 2013. ee is not working he been off since dec 21 , 2013 he retired jan 2013 .
employee was helping the men change and remove screens for the telesmith s-2 screen , when he pulled something in his lower abdomen .
ee was assisting with removal of the front hubs on the 988f front end loader . while they were attempting to place the hub on shop floor with use of overhead crane , ee had placed a lifting strap around hub & to the crane hook , ee was trying to force the hub to set down level & right hand middle finger became pinched between strap & a 90 oil fitting on the hub .
the miner was taking a point in the pillar section . top rock fell on the miner and interupted normal prodution for over an hour .
ee was driving a shaft through a platico value with a hammer , when he struck his middle finger with the hammer .
an unplanned roof fall occured in the 4l section at 35 crosscut 2-3 entry ( longbreak ) . the fall was approx 60 feet long by 9ft high . there were no injuries as a result of this incident .
ee was driving a truck & the beaded seat cover kept pressing against the kill switch behind theseat . he reached behind the seat to clear the switch & accidently stuck middle finger on rt . hand in fan resulting in 12 stitches to finger . put on antibiotics for infection & pain reliever ( unable to work for 2 weeks ) .
injury to elbow chronic resulting from repetitive motion os swinging hammer while performing nuclear guage density testing in soil with very high gravel content
employee was opening a railcar lid when they smashed a finger between the lid and a loading spout .
ee was priming a water pump when he got his clothes against the muffler burning his leg in the thigh area .
ee states while performing normal work duties over several yrs that her wrists have hurt & nowthey hurt all the time & wants dr to look at them . went to dr. & was sent to specialist that sai d that she needed surgery to her wrist . she had surgery on 4/5/02 & was released to work her next scheduled workday 4/9/02 with modified duty
an unplanned roof fall occurred at survey station spad no 681 which measured approximately 20 feet by 20 feet by six feet .
roof fell out above roof bolts on n-5 longwall panel . start-up longwall panel pressure riding from start up .
employee was cutting out a flap when he cuthis left hand .
he was putting a v belt on the shive , when it rocked on his thumb got pinched .
employee felt light headed and fell to the floor . ee call for help and was move to a chair . we believe ee broke ankle somehow during the fall .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the h-10 panel in the no.5 entry at spad 10129. the fall measured 18 ' wide , 14 ' high and 100 ' long .
ee was rolling a barrel and strained his shoulder . received 10 days of prescription pain .
an unplanned roof fall at the pegasus mine , on # 5 belt . fall came from belt entry over to track entry and stopped where cribbs had already been installed . around 2 ' thick at track entry up to 8 ' on belt entry , called msha martin office , andreported it to ee , the morning of fall , other was sent down to check on fall .
ee was using 8-lb sledgehammer to open & close valves & screen boxes in calcination area of plant when she suffered a strain to her rt shoulder . she was seen by the plant doctor who issued restrictions & referred her to an orthopedic dr. she was instructed by the orthopedic dr not to return to work pending results of exam . this resulted in ee losing time from work .
ee was checking pumps in mw intake . while walking from pump at 11 xc , he slipped on wet rock causing him to fall against the rib which caused injury to his right shoulder . ee was a contusion t o his right shoulder .
the ee was assisting in the removal of a 55 gallon drum from a pallet , using a manual drum hoist/dolly . the drum was obstructed , causing the swing arms to move , pinching the ee's finger .
reportable only due to sutures . employee was helping set water dukes at shield # 10 on i-4 longwall when a piece of scale rock fell hitting employee right forearm causing laceration to forearm .
while back draffing pile , hand slipped off steering wheel causing him to strike elbow on steering knob .
employee was operating the truck weigh scales . she stepped out of the office to use the restroom . when she stepped down on the steps she twisted her ankle and fell .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 3 entry face and crosscut right o 11 right e panel sub-mains . the fall measured 19 wide by 55 feet long and 2 feet to 4 feet high .
found fall on preshift fault line area crib and dangered off .
employee was walking back to the fire deck . he reached for the handrail to go up the stairs and bumped the back of his rt . hand against the handrail .
employee was taking slack out of the face chain , went to reach for a dog bone ear to put in thats when their foot slipped in between face chain . when they tried to pull foot loose they felt a pop in left knee . ee worked till 8/08/2017 when they went off for surgery .
emp was welding and a piece of steel fell off the lip onto left foot .
ee was cutting a roller bearing apart to perform a failure analysis . he cut thru bearing approx . 95 % of the outer race with cutting disc & was using a hammer & chisel to finish separating the material . as he struck the chisel he felt pain in left hand . piece of bearing had broken free & gone thru glove cutting index finger . occurred on 6/12/12-specialist removed piece on 7/12/12
ee was laying a 55 gallon drum , full of oil , down on the ground . he pinched his fingers between the oil drum and a spool of rope .
as the eimco westhead miner was cutting in the # 2 entry of the # 4 section , an ignition occurred that lasted approx . 1 minute & was extinguished with a fire extinguisher . no injuries/damage .
ee was fitting a conveyor belt on palletizer # 1 at packing house . when he pulled the belt he pinched his right ring finger between the belt and roller .
ee hit soft spot in road , was jostled in the seat of the haul truck , and felt immediate pain in his low back . seen at the er , referred to back specialist who put the ee on restricted duty and prescribed physical therapy .
roof fall , xcut 20+02 , 1 left pine gulch panel approx . 20 ' wide , 20 ' long , 5 ' high . area was timbered off . fall did not affect ventilation . pulled approx . 4 bolts .
during power washing project on the boom of marion drag line , employee became over heated and allegedly passed out
ee was operating a mechanical scaler when he heard a loud boom . scaler caught on fire and mine was evacuated at that time . it is beleived that this was an electrical flash fire & self-extinguised in less that 30 minutes . we notified msha at the time because it was thought we had a reportable mine fire . upon further investigation , it revealed it probably was not .
cutting pieve of steel when slag flew in eye . prescription eyeglasses without side shields and cutting goggles were being worn .
employee was working ont eh muffler of a peter built tractor . he ahd th epassenger side door open and standing in the door way putting the top clamp on . he started to get down when a rubber boot from inside the cab fell down under his feet causing him to trip and fall to the ground . he spraine dhis right ankle , landed on his left buttock and broke his left wrist .
ee was in the process of putting a derailed mantrip back onto the track . while using a lifting jack and bar he experienced some pain in his right lower back and right abdomen . recently he star ted a series of physical theraphy treaments for this injury .
while trying to cement casing , ee was making cement , he clipped an open razor knife to his belt . when he bent down to get a bucket of soda ash , he cut his left forearm on open blade .
ee was sitting on toe-motor when he started coughing & passed out falling off forklift
ee was climbing a ladder when his foot slipped & he hit his right knee on the rail car
4 south rt . section ee tied bolter cable up with a nylon rope.a rib strap was used to place rope behind rib strap & to tie bolter cable up . they activated the cable reel pickup the tension , cut the rope & the cable struck him in the mouth & cut his upper lip . sutures to close wound .
cleaning fuller multicones . bumped shovel causing lime to fall getting in eyes .
conveyor on wash-seperator plant stopped . ee lifted guard to check-without shutting off power . he touched conveyor it started catching tip of right hand index finger crushed tip of finger .
employee's hand was pinned between metal screen deck & screen side plate as he was attempting to manually position the deck for installation . the deck lodged against material on the walkway wh ile suspended by hoist & come-along .
# 2 unit , # 6 entry , x-cut 38. slip and water was present ( was already cribbed when fell ) . lenght 25 ' , width 18 ' and thickness 9 ' .
ee was welding with a crack in his welding helmet .
parked on a hill on a mantrip . before he exited the mantrip , another mantrip hit him .
the man was sitting on the mantrip . as the mantrip began to move , he noticed the lunch bag on top of the mantrip was rubbing against the roof . he stated he told the operator to stop and reached for the bag . the operator did not hear him and continued to tram . the mantrip struck a rock causing the man's arm to momentarily be pinched between the mantrip and the roof .
ee was pushing 7/8 '' top roof bolt and stick of glue into bolt hole when he felt pain in his neck , right shoulder and right forearm . he was assigned to restricted duty .
injured was dismounting a 930 loader . his foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground . injured tried to catch himself with his left arm and hand . injured jammed his hand into the ground resulting in a fracture to the left foream bone .
employee stated he was helping unload # 4 cable from the scoop bucket onto a supply car and as he picked up a loop of cable he felt a sharp painin his lower back . first lost work day occured o n 3-5-03 .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee . he last worked on 7/1/2010 when he retired . no % disability at this time .
ee was operating a beaver drill drilling a hole in the roof to install a bolt for a monorail hanger . the drill steel caught an existing bolt which caused the beaver drillsteel to stop rotating , twisting ee right arm . this resulted into a strain to his right elbow for which he is now receiving theraphy treatments .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 10-2-03 at approx . 1:13 pm dimensions of fall estimated at 20 ft by 20 ft by 4 ft high . location was at 3 east mains , entery at survey station 6314 .
ee was training a new haul truck driver . ee was sitting in the jump seat next to door . haul truck encountered a rough road condition and the ee bumped his shoulder against door of truck .
ee was helping other employees move a vacuum pump which had been loaded on a 4 wheel cart . whilepulling & pushing he hurt his back . first lost work day was 1/2/01 .
ee was completing a stopping in the # 9 entry outyby the 002 section . he stumbled over some concrete blocks . while falling , he caught himself with his left hand . he completed the stopping and finished his shift .
ee was standing on a ladder , one foot on the ladder and the other foot in the generator room . in an attempt to pull the breaker , he slipped and fell approximately 5 feet , injuring his back and hip .
bagging micron sand involves twisting & swingingof arms . pain in right elbow .
ee was operating a loader . he hit a chug hole while his body was twisted to look at a truck , causing pain in hip & lower back .
ee was preparing to install a mill hammer shank when the shank tipped over smashing his right thumb .
employee stated while riding a mac8 to the section , the driver backed into and dislodged a timber which fell striking ee on the hardhat . ee did not loose consciousness , refused backboard and was transported to the surface by emt with a cervical collar in place . ee was transported to hospital via ambulance and diagnosed with a concussion and given one week off per protocol .
on january 7 , 2016 , employee assisted with the changing of a bit and deck bushing on a rotary drill . ee felt a pinch in ee's abdomen after pushing with ee's left leg . on january 18 , 2016 ee received a diagnosis of a left inguinal hernia .
employee was attempting to move a 5hp flyght pump from a water hole that had been pumped down . the employee lifted the pump about waist high when he lost his grip on the pump handle and the pump landed on the top of his left foot resulting in the fracture of a small bone in his foot .
injured was operating the mantrip taking his crew outside when the accident occurred while tramming the mantrip by the 5 headgate mother drive his right arm got caught between mantrip and moto r for belt head that was setting by track . he was taken to came general where surgery was done to repair injuries . diagnosed with multiple injuries including fractures above and below elbow a
ee was working on 3001 down hole drill and as he was climbing down off the drill his foot slipped and fell , striking his right knee . restrict . ed duty beginning 7-12-00 from job class .
assisting with motor repair burned left hand with acetylene torch when cutting away extra metal from new adjustment screw appeared to be 3rd degthe work area was not cleared enought to allow ' more space
operator was on top at tb 1313 tank wash out a screen box . he was using a water hose with 170 degree ferinheit water . he layed the hose down wtih water running to do another task and the water hose whipped and sprayed him with hot water
ee was working at feeder when he turned around . ee felt pain in lower back . when pain would not ease , ee left mine to go to the hospital .
rock fall on intake spad # 904 to 905 . 4 ft. thick x 20 ft. wide x 80 ft. long cross cut .
emp bent over to pick up wiper bracket and felt pain in his back . initially refused treatment , sought treatment 6/30/2005 with company physician resulting in 25 # lift limit restriction .
injured employee was troubleshooting a baghouse tipping valve . after isolation and removing material ( lime dust ) ee moved in for a closer look through an approx . 1/2 '' h x 8 '' w opening in the valve . unexpectedly , dust came out of the opening and hit the employee in the face resulting in dust getting into the employees left eye , medical treatment , and prescription medication .
cutting underbelting with knife - on ground - not paying attention - laceration right knee .
employee barring a rock from behind a rockbolt mat , mat struck him in the cheek . laceration thatrequired stitches .
while checking the oil level at the # 3 jameson pump , standing on a pipe , employee slipped and tried to catch himself by reaching out and felt pain in his left arm . he was taken to the er and diagnosed with a dislocated shoulder .
ee was helping foreman weld and repair roll plant . ee was not welding , he had shaded safety glasses on , foreman was welding . injured ee received weld flash that evening around 10:00pm .
ee states that he was working on his knees , he raised up into standing position and felt his knee pop .
ee was dragging an 11/2 `` washdown hose along thecat walk for the silo belt when he felt a pain in his abdomen he con'td to work , then thru repeated trauma he was diagnosed with a hernia on 5/1 5/01 which req 'd surgery to repair . lost work days began 5/15/01
roof fall , . intersection of # 3 entry of the 1-right submain at break # 6. fall approximately 30 feet long 20 feet wide and 8 feet high . no one injured , no equiptment involved .
ee experienced a sharp pain in his left shoulder while on his break . he stated he had been shoveling product spillage right before he went on break . ee attributes the injury to the shoveling o f product . physician diagnosis : left shoulder strain .
while rockdusting 10 belt with hose , he was walking backwards and stepped on a small bottom rooler which caused him to twist his left knee and fall down .
employee attempted to move a 2,500 lb pallet of novacite with his arms down a roller caster table . in his attempt the employee heard a pop at his right elbow and pain .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on panel # 3. break # 1 in the # 5 & 6 entries . size of fall was estimated to be 90'l x 20 ' w x 8-9'h . area had been supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts with supplemental support consisting of 10 ' cable bolts no injuries , ventilation was interrupted , primary escapeway was blocked . fall was cleaned up ventilation restored , escapeway re-establis
a roof fall occurred in the # 9 coal seam in the 3rd southwest submains at crosscut # 80 in the # 5 ( belt ) entry . no injuries or ventilation short circuit occurred as a result of the roof fall .
employee suffered a lower back sprain when the track vehicle he was on was struck by a mantrip . the first day he missed work due to the injury was 1/20/2011 .
ee was walking past # 19 630 scoop parked in # 2 entry . e-20 section when he brushed against a metal burr sticking out from the scoop battery frame causing a laceration to the back of the right hand . ee was wearing leather meta miner gloves .
at 8:45am ee was remodeling the birdhouse ( load out shack ) . he shot his left index finger with a staple gun .
two miners were working inside an electrical control box while the generator was running . although the main power disconnects had been shut off , there was still an electrical load on the line due to improper wiring of the circuit . the minerwas burned from an electrical flash and ensuing fire when the other miner attempted to connect the live wire to a breaker box .
ee was attempting to move a belt roller when it slipped out of his hand and his right little finger was caught between the roller and an installed crib . the resulting injury was a laceration w hich required sututres to close .
employee ( lab tech . ) stepped out of lab door to walkway to walk to scales , boot slid on bar grating ramp & he struck the handrail w/his rt . knee . ee never left work & continued work every day . appt . w/company dr. 2/2/05 resulted in a mri 2/3/05 , the results were read only today . he has a cracked patella rt . knee & has an appt . w/an orthopedic dr. in a few days . will keep working .
the injured was walking thru the mine and tripped on a tie that was covered with some rockdust . he slipped and fell breaking his wrist when he struck his hand out to break fall .
ee blasting at florida rock when a rock ricocheted off the conveyer system and hit him in the upper left chest area .
ee was operating off side roof bolter . he was starting his teel against top when it kicked out . it struck an lacerated his right cheek . laceration was approx one and a half inches long and req uired 10 stitches .
while walking down the longwall face , struck head against shield jamming neck . individual saw dr. aug.7,2002 scheduled for mri . revisit to dr.on dec 9,2002 to get mri results . now needs surgery on neck for disc herniation . surgergy scheduled for 12-17-02 .
employee stated a piece of metal entered his left eye as he was grinding handrail . employee states he was wearing saftey glasses . medical treatment .
ee was using a knife to cut plastic pipe . while resting plastic pipe on his left leg . the knife pentrated the plastic pipe and pentrating the ee s clothing then pentrating inside of ee left th ight .
the ee complained of having a sore left knee and sore elbows from stacking 50 lb bags of sand .
injured was sitting on the bench in the locker room . he accidentally sat on a chain to a basketthe chain came loose the basket dropped and hit him on the top of his head .
employee dropped water bottle in cat d30 haul unit air condition vent hole , while retrieving the bottle , employee injuried right ring finger tip when finger made contact with blower fan . while getting first aid treatment in the office , the employee fainted and broke his front tooth when he hit the desk .
roof fall at 1 main c between 102 and 103 xcuts on the # 5 mainline belt conveyor . roof fall is at 40 ' l , 22 ' w , and from 0-4'h . roof was laminated slate and appeared to deteriorate due to mois ture . area was developed june 1968 with cont . miner and supported with 6 ' conventional roof bolts . some posts were also set in this area .
mr. hamilton filed an alledged occupational pneumoniosis claim on 2/27/09 , claim no . 2009005249. his last day worked was 8/11/09 due to an injury . he received a 5 % op award on claim no . 2005044352 submitted on 6/10/05 , e-document no . 196058. received notice of this claim on 3/12/09 .
ee fell face first when he slipped/tripped down a bank to a water valve . ee was observing the loading of the water when he noticed the 3 '' water hose connector was coming loose from the stand pipe on the water truck . he hurried down a bank to shut off the valve when he slipped & fell onto the ground . he sustained a concussion/laceration to the forehead , neck sprain , restricted duty .
employee was moving grates & slipped & fell ontosteel beam injuring his back & left side .
the ee was replacing drive belts on the sand screw . he was standing at the end of the screw when he reached down to unscrew the bolt on a guard . he felt a pop on the left side of his rib cage . he reported it , but did not feel the need to go to the doctor until 8/13 . he received a shot for pain on 8/13 , and another for inflammation on 8/17 . released to full duty on 8/20 .
an unplanned roof fall occurred outby # 5 neutral entry near old # 6 belt spad 3037. the fall was approximately 90 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' to 6 ' . no injuries were report and no equipment was damaged .
while ee was drilling , a rock fell striking ee on left shoulder , causing bruising to shoulder .
employee was in the surface shop installing a transmission in a underground mantrip . the transmission became hung and wouldn't go in any farther so he was pulling at it trying to get it to free up . all of a sudden it came loose and caused the employee to fall backwards , twisting his knee and striking his elbow on a metal cover . he started missing 9/19/2007 .
employee slipped on ice while walking between office and shower house at lowry mine . this is a reoccurence of this injury . it was not reportable before . employee woke up 8/11/10 in pain with a swelled knee , continued to work rest of week , then went on light duty 8/11/10 . then went off work 8/19/10 .
ee was operating roof bolter . his glove got caught in drill stell , glove twisted and lacerated hand requiring 4 stitches . between index finger & thumb on right hand .
loose conductor cord hanging from the bottom of a conveyor structure in the travelway causing it to catch a lube truck and the electrical conductor cord that was hooked to a welder tripped the employee , wrapped around his right leg and drug him down the travelway approx 50 ' .
ee was stepping onto a belt and slipped and fell onto the belt , landing on his right knee . that evening his knee was hurting so he went to the doctor and was diagnosis with a knee sprain .
a fall of the roof occurred on the # 3 unit , # 1 entry in the 2nd crosscut outby the dumping point in the 3rd sw sub-panel . the fall was 30'l , 18.5'w , and 5'thick . no ventilation , equipment or p assage of men were affected .
ee and other co-workers had installed a belt lay on the no . 2 unit . after completing move of the tailpiece , the left side of cm water hose needed to be rerouted over the new section of belt . ee had the end of the water hose in his hand & was climbing over the belt . when climbing belt his foot slipped allowing l forearm to strike the belt structure resulting in contusion .
a roof fall was discovered in the # 4 entry of the 2 mains butt , 1 x-cut inby spad # 11274. the fall was 60 ' long , 20'wide and 42 `` high . no equipment was involved . the area was cribbed , posted and dangered off . this section was abandoned and equipment pulled out before the fall .
ee was attempting to unplug a pressure tap on the kiln pre-heat cyclone when hot material blew out and struck the ee . the ee removed his ppe , he found that he had suffered burns to his forearms .
a maintenance millwright has been diagnosed with a plueral plaque . though plueral plaques are biological indicators of past asbestos exposure , current and past exposure data and sampling data have not reflected a risk of asbestos exposure .
while trying to load a mandoor into a battery scoop bucket the employee felt a sharp pain in his right shoulder .
ee strained his neck when he drove his truck over a pothole . on 9/24 the mine received verification of additional medical treatment besides the diagnostic vist and release to work .
the ee was bolting # 9 entry ; putting strap on holder when a piece of rock fell , striking him on the head and shoulder . went to dr. on 4-10-02 , worked lite duty unti 4/18 . went back to dr. on 1 8th . first day missed work 4-18-02 .
ee tripped & fell walking from parking area to bottom . he hung his foot in something didn't know what it was . he hit his left shoulder and ribs .
ee hit head on half-header ; he fell down on his right arm .
ee was using a sledge hammer to beat caps out of crusher . a foregin material from either caps or sledge hammer entered ee's right hand between thumb and index finger . he was taken to hospital and was referred to hand specialist . work duty is modified . surgery scheduled for 4/20/06 .
employee was replacing pump - pulling waterline up on bank , which was full of water . the person next to our employee either let go or lost his frip & all the weight of the 6 '' line was on our e mployee .
while replacing damaged conveyor belting , old belt tore unexpectedly , striking ee in stomach . initial diagnosis was bruised abdomen , follow up consultation indicated 2 fractured ribs . released to unrestricted duty .
employee was making his weekly examination of 002-mmu intake air course when he discovered a roof fall in # 5 entry one break to the right of survey spad 760 in south mains . fall was timbered and dangered off , did not interrupt ventilation and was not on active section .
employee was attempting to `` walk '' an atrs jack from a location where it was removed to the coal rib . the employee became unbalanced and the jack caused him to fall . the jack fell across his leg resulting in contusions to the employee's upper left leg and thigh . ( medical only ) .
the employee stated his injury occurred when he was attempting to rotate a 50 lb . chute liner plate in the surface crusher . the ee said the strain occurred when he tried to lift the liner plate using a scraper hook . the ee said he misjudged the weight of the liner plate . note : the ee reported the injury on 3/30/05 .
the james creek emergency escape hoist for the primary escapeway of the longwall section 060 and 2-east to james creek did not function in automatic mode when inspected . all men were removed for the affected area until a qualified person was stationed at the escape hoist building to operate in the event of emergency .
ee was loosening a bolt with a ratchet when ratchet slipped mashing his left primary finger between ratchet and wall .
ee was exiting his haul truck . when he reached the bottom of the ladder . he stepped onto a large stone that moved this causing him 6o twist his ankle .
a fall of roof occurred measuring 0-10 ' high x 12 ' wide trapping the mobile roof support . the ventilation was not disturbed and the fall will not be cleaned up . the fall occurred on the pillar section 001 mmu # 5 pillar block at ss # 8425 .
employee was shoveling salt from under the cage paktor belt and experienced a sharp pain in lower back .
associate was shoveling around skidster that was stuck when he got stuck in the clay around him and cut himself on the skidster . associate received stitches in the arm .
rock fell through a wire mesh , hitting ee on the head/shoulder . few minutes later he felt faint , tingling in right arm . cervical spine strain . *post treatment infection resulted in hospitalization and lost time .
ee stated that he was roof bolting when he sat the drill head of the roof bolter on his right foot resulting in a crushing injury to the middle toe . the skin was sewn over the very end of his toe at the nail . the steel toe actually mashed the end of the toe .
ee was performing maintenance work on a belt drive take up unit . he was climbing off the take up when his foot caught in the structure & he fell . his foot was twisted when he fell because it r emained caught in structure . there was no damageor impairment to any equipment or to the operation . ee did not maintain solid footing while climbing down . no other factors involved .
ee had loaded a rock duster he walked back to get water off of scoop , the scoop was moving and rolled over the end of his right foot .
was bagging hydrated lime with a protective hood on . he says he bent over and the hood was caught on soemthing an dit pulled off his head and at the same time the start buttom was pushed blow ing hydrate into his eyes . temporary loss of vision due to hydrate in eyes . 4 days with blurred vision in 1 eye .
piece of steel fell down between tray and head of roof bolter . employee reaching to get steel while raising pinner head catching his ring finger on his right hand and cutting the tip of his fi nger off .
a roof fall occured in the 3rd east main entries at x-cut # 31 in # 6 entry . the fall measured 35'x 19'x 8 ' . the fall was caused by a hidden slip in the mine roof . the area was mined in may 2007
employee is reporting inflamation of the neck , cause unknown . first day off work 2/7/2007 , awaiting dr. review to determine if work relatedness can be ascertained . at this time it appears to be an occupational illness .
roof fall -- 70 ' in by the survey station # 1042 in the cross cut between # 4 entry and # 3 entry on the 2nd northwest mains 3,400 feet from our section . this is an area where we pulled back from . it measured 6 ' thick by 16 ' wide by 35 ' in length . it is not affecting ventilation . we will not be cleaning the fall up , we are dangering it off . no employees or equipment was involved .
class b reader interpretation of 1/0 on xray the filing of this 7000-1 is not to be construedas an admission by the opeator that an occupational respiratory disease or illness has occured
fixing broken conveyor belt , he was pulling to roll up the coveyor belt and felt pain in his left shoulder .
ee was operating a roof bolting machine . he was tightening a roof bolt into the top . stone fell from top hitting him on the side of his head lacerating his ear . there was damage or impairment to the mining operation or the equipment . the injury did not involve job skills , proficiency , training , attitude , protective i8tmes or protective devices .
while drilling out broken exhaust studs with airdrill , wind blew fine shavings into eye behind safety glasses .
while conducting his weekly examination a fireboss identified a roof fall in the return on detour mains in the # 1 entry one break inby spad # 621. the fall was approx 20'x20'x4'-5'h and was supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts the area was mined approx 8/1/11 . the area will not be cleaned up the area has been dangered off and timbers have been set .
the ee was exiting her pickup at the 4600 dragline where she works , when she went to close the door , she realized the seatbelt in the way and went to grab it , which caused her to catch her right hand in the door as it closed .
ee was cutting timber on saw when he tripped/ slipped and fell striking his left knee on the concrete floor .
ee was helping load hi-line cable in a flatcar , to be moved , when he got his foot caught between an old piece of belt rubber laying in roadway & scoop bucket , causing a bruise to top of left ankle . he was treated with a cold pack & driven home .
ee dropped the drill pot on his right foot .
roof fall measuring approx 18 ' w by 50 ' l by 4-8 ' h found during weekly travel of bleeder system . located approx 140 ' in by survey station # 2359. no persons , equipment or ventilation affected . will not be cleaned up . area will be timbered off . repoted by phone to msha .
the employee was hammering out the burner nozzleon # 5 kiln when he felt a pull in his right shoulder .
a roof fall was found in # 6 entry 2500 ' outby the face , one break inby spad # 7993. the fall was 20'w x 40'l x 4 ' to 6 ' high . the fall has been dangered off and timbers have been set . this area was bolted with 4 ' resin bolts and will not be cleaned up .
ee started operating the hitachi excavator with ramer hydraulic hammer in 3/1999 . ee complained of pain & burning & eventually had bleeding in his stool . on 3/7/00 ee was diagnosed by the co dr as having a tear or fissure inside the rectumsurgery is scheduled at which time the surgeon has stated he will determine whether the injury is work related or not
the mine experienced an unintentional roof fall outby the active section on the parallel leatherwood mains at crosscut # 45. the fall is approximately 160 ' long & 5 ' to 6 ' thick . the roof in the area is layered shale . this area had been permanently supported with 4 ' fully grouted rods . the fall extended thru the intersection from # 3 to # 6 entries .
the ee stated he ran into a hole in the road at the # 1 switch back curve . the ee stated he felt pain in his lower back . he sought medical attention that day & returned to work under modified duty until the 25th at which time he was placed off work . ee missing work on 1-25-13 . *on 3/19/14 the employee was awarded 5 % permanent partial disability as a result of the injury .
ee had pain in right elbow prior to this time frame . he then noticed pain in his right elbow while swinging a hammer to strike a knocker wrench . he reported on 7/26/00 that he was experiencing continued pain . he went for medical exam & was diagnosed with strain to lower arm , but able to perform reg duties . 10/4/00 dr prescribed physical therapy & work restrictions .
while installing a conventional roof bolt in the rib , a methane feeder was ignited in 22 headgate , entry 2 , xc 20 to 21. apparently friction between the roof bolt and the plate ignited the met hane . the flame was immediately extinguished with water .
ee was plugging a motor in a battery and the cable shorted out .
ee was cutting a band on a carton of paper . when band broke , knife slipped and struck other arm .
employee was working on the longwall face as a fully trained shieldman and picking up stones in the shield line . he felt pain in abdomen . he continued to work and while shoveling felt more pain . started losing time as of 1-17-15 .
ee was cutting core , placed rock under running blade . saw pulled rock and hand into blade , nicking the left index finger knuckle . stitches required and ee released to restricted duty .
employee was executing repairs to a komatsu pc5500 hydraulic excavator , during the course of the repair the automatic fire suppression systems was activated and discharged fire extinguishers , employees were covered in the fire suppression material resulting to irritation to eyes and respiratory system
when cleaning out the grizzley on a feeder the employees right hand , 4th finger was hit between a rock and the grizzley bar . the employee's finger sustained injury - bleeding & tissue damage .
ee was walking around the head of the continuous miner when he hit his hard hat on a torque tension roof bolt , thus knocking his hard hat off of his head . he replaced the hard hat on his head and went back to work . he continued to work up until his doctor took him off work on 07/29/2011 .
pc-038 had a broken pin on the 480 volt dust receptacle cover . as ee tried to remove the bolts that held the gear mount in place he discovered that the nuts on the inside of the power center were turning . ee had not de-energized the powercenter before trying to remove the access panel.whiel moving the access panel the 480 volt primary side came in contact with ground .
while breaking lose a bolt , the wrench slipped , causing hadn to swing into a broken weld . result was eight stitches .
the ee was using a cutting torch to cut off bolts from the dozer blade . he leaned to his left to see better , when a hot metal spark bounced off of the dozer blade and got under his safety glas ses and went into his left eye .
ee was building a stopping using 6 '' solid concrete blocks . while lifting a block and placing it on the 8th row , ee felt a pain in lower abdomen . ee later went to a surgeon who found a hernia in ee's groin . this will require surgery . ee began missing work on 01/09/2018 .
ee was driving mack coal truck loaded down a steep grade when another coal truck following him lost control and ran into rear of his truck causing this accident . ee got mild concussion of head due to impact of truck hitting him causing moderate damage to truck .
ee was walking and stepped in a hole .
elevator went down at 12:20 am . the elevator was on the bottom and would not come to top . the fault screen showed motor overload . to fix the problem took a slate bar an pryed out a piece of sheet metal that was caught under the bottom of an outside ring at the base of the shaft .
on 5-18-16 employee was lifting an auger and twisting around , and felt pain in back . ee declined medical treatment and remained at work . on 6-6-16 ee lifted something and aggravated lower back . ee remained at work that day and went to the dr. the next day ( 6-7-16 ) . ee is currently working on light duty .
a peice of metal came loose from a chipping hammer and became lodged in employee's left hand between his thumb and first finger . a co-worker was using the hammer to dislodge material from a feed plate on a scalping screen and he was standing next to him . the small peice of metal was not removed because of the depth in his hand .
ee tried to hold rolled up button box electrical cord with his arm . too much weight causing sprain to left arm .
employye was using a utility knife to cut a piece of grease line off a bulk roll , the blade of the knife came out of the holder a cut the employees right thumb ( employee is left handed ) . the employee recieved three stitches in his right thumb and returned to duty .
after helping filter operator hook up a water line to slurry pumps , ee stood up and jammed his head into the dillution water line . ee went to the dr. and was prescribed physical therapy .
ee moving chute liner ; liner dropped on left foot . ee refused medical treatment ; discomfort continued , requested medical attention 11/2 - x-ray showed fracture of toe .
set up a tri stand -opened it up -pulled his right side of his chest area .
two olt truck drivers closed tailgate . one driver got fingers caught between the tailgate & the truck body . one finger was smashed and the tip of another one cut off .
employee was cleaning breakroom , which involved moving furniture to clean behind it . when the refrigerator was moved , the employee felt a pain in the middle right side of her back .
ee was on top of the incline conveyor to unplug a bag jam on the conveyor . when he removed the bag from the photo eye , the conveyor started pulling his leg in the head wheel and breaking his ankle .
east 3 59 block # 4 heading 4-way mmu 007 . 18 ft wide x 18 ft long x 12 ft high . type of support : cable bolts with 8 '' x 8 '' plates , 6 ft resin with 8 '' x 8 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall .
ee was cutting a 1/2 '' scal-tite with a ban saw . the blade went through the metal and cut his finger . ( middle finger , left hand ) .
ee performing hand scaling underground with a scaling bar and felt pain in right elbow . ee was sent for medical treatment on 3/14/18 and was placed on restricted duty at that time for elbow sprain .
ee strained left houlder while operating a front end loader , loading haul trucks with excavated limestone in the pit .
the injured ee was working on a speed reducer at # 14 belt drive . while turning the reducer ee got his hand caught in the gears , resulting in a laceration on the top of his right hand , approx . 3 '' long .
ee opened the back of his machine ( loader ) and was stung by several bees .
freezing rain had caused some ice build-up on the scale office ramp . the dispatcher was leaving , when walking down the ramp she slipped & fell on her left hip . ( did not become msha recordable until 11/19/08 . )
miner suffered a lower left back muscle strain . miner was on knees moving cams to set screen deck following normal procedure on a rotex sizing machine and reported sudden back pain . miner was experienced in this task . miner was wearing assigned ppe . possible factors include muscle fatigue from screen changing , inadequate rest periods or stress of coming erect from kneeling .
ee was under the headache rock of ( # 1174 ) a 50 ton end dump . he was bending over the battery box and going to jump start this truck when he stood up his hard hat fell off and he hit his head . he had a knot on his head .
bolter operator was bolting roof in # 2 entry on 1st rt section . top was real hard and bit tore up . he was knocking the bit off the drill steel to change it when he struck his left index finge r between bolter and drill steel bruising finger . he was off 2 days .
attempted to change 3/8 '' pressure hose to the water activation solenoid on 203 shield on the 24w longwall face . ee did not turn off or relieve pressure to the hose , and while pulling staple lock out the hose released and hit ee in the mouth , resulting in impact injuries to the mouth area . injury did not result from problem with mining machines , training , ppe , or compliance issues .
ee was inside the cone crusher inspecting the crusher for a problem and opened the hatch door to let some fresh air into the inspection area , after several minutes he forgot the hatch was open and leaned back and fell through the door and fell approximately 10 feet .
ee was helping another member perform maintenance on a coal truck . ee struck his right thumb with a hammer causing a laceration that required suturing .
employee was using a pry bar to lift a cylinder of abco conveyor to stop it from leaking . the pry bar slipped off the cylinder and hit him . it caused a cut in front of right ear .
rock rolled out of a shot and went under hauler . when loader operator picked up the hauler to set it off the rock , the bucket slipped , shaking the hauler and emplooyee .
ee was in the process of pulling electrical cable out of the walkway near the section power center when he slipped and fell backward onto a high voltage cable sled resulting in a bruised kidne y and lumbar strain to his back .
ee was helping connect surface delay caps in a blasting operation when a rock fell off highwallstriking his right hand .
vacuuming up cement with hose off vac . trk . cement got into his boots and under his socks , creating burns . he didn't notice the burns until he was home in the evening , though he felt some irritation during the day . he did not report incident until 6/1/05 and at such time we sent him for medical treatment .
at 0700 the ee was found laying on the floor in the control room in building 12 unresponsive . the supervisor on shift was notified as well as 911. the ee was transported to the hospital and later relaeased ( same day ) and returned to full duty next day with no restrictions . employee has pre-existing , non work related illness .
employee was riding mantrip to section . mantrip hit kink in track , bounced employee and he landed on a hammer and light .
employee injured his right bicep on monday morning at the start of the shift ( 5 am ) when he was lifting a 4-inch pump flexible discharge line and attempting to take a tight bend out of the line . he felt a pain in his right elbow . he had an mri that diagnosed a right distal bicep rupture . ee had surgery to repair the rupture and has been working his regular job .
at 7:22 a.m. a roof fall was discovered by an examiner in the main east at xc 83 at old 4a header between # 5 and # 6 entries . the fall measured 18 ' w x 30 ' l x 8 ' h. there were no injuries or witnesses . also no disruptions to ventilation or passage of personel . the main east belt line was affected .
during plant setup ee walked to back of crawler to do something , stood up too quickly & hit his head on ripper .
ee was attempting to tighten hand wheel type brake on rail car . straining to tighten brake , ee pulled a muscle in his back .
employee was climing ladder onto equipment , slipped and fell to ground landing hard on left foot .
employee was adjusting spring on overhead garage door . employee should have secured spring with a clamp to prevent spring from expending but did not . spring broke loose and hit employee on han d .
preparations were underway to change the ropes on a dragline . injured ee was removing a lifting cable hung inside the house on the wall . a metal t bracket was also hanging as the cable was rem oved . the t bracket was dislodged from its hanging support as the lifting cable was being lowered . t bracket struck the injured ee on the right shin and landed on rt foot fracturing it .
while attaching the cylinder to the boom arm the supporting cable slipped . ee s right hand was int he pinch point . middle finger on right hand was crushed partially amputated .
changing wheel parts . after replacing broken flange on back side of wheel and remounting the tire employee was in the process of airing the tirewhen the outside wheel hardware failed . the tire had approximately 80 p.s.i . when the failure occured .
the area was clear of all material and free from obstructions , trip hazards and tools . ee was closing a railcar door . a railroad bar is necessary for this task . the bar slipped from the door l atch causing him to lose his balance , twisting his right ankle .
ee was walking across rebar mat when he slipped and stepped through top mat scratching his shin which then became infected .
three employees were changing inserts on circuit 4 feeder breaker when coal dust flashed causing burns to all three employees . employees were transported to campbell county memorial hospital and later flown to the western states burn center in greely colorado for the best immediate care with non life threatening injuries .
ee dropped a piece of steel on her left middle finger .
ee was roof bolting at the time of this incident . he stated that he pried down a rock with a prybar and that another rock fell and struck the pry bar flipping it up striking him in the chin an d lacerating it .
ee was bolting # 2r . a piece of draw rock fell , striking him on the right leg , just above the ankle . the impact fractured the bone located in that area . this occurred on mmu section 009 . ( fractured fibia )
attaching drawbar for timber truck to locomotive , caught `` r '' middle finger between pin and frame of timber truck - lacerating tip of `` r '' middle finger .
evening shift miner operator was assisting maintenance personnel in installing a connecting linkin conveyor chain . as he struck the link with a hammer a piece of metal hit the right side of hi s head .
employee was walking down the entry when ee rolled right ankle in a hole , causing ee to fall .
while ee was pulling a rock with comealongs the chain slipped off rock and caused ee to fall off the stageloader .
while performing clean up duties , a rock fell off of the conveyor striking the employee in the top of the ear . employee was wearing full ppe , including a hardhat , safety glasses and steel toe boots . sutures were required for the top of the ear .
ee was checking fuel in side tank on salem augerand stedpped down and caught his left leg before the fuel tank and auger carriage on the fuel tank straps . bruised his left leg in the calf part .
traveling through man door and hit side of mandoor .
unplanned roof fall above anchorage zone in 7th north west butt # 2 room outby spad # 1692 , two crosscuts in an intersection . approx . 20'wide x 30'long , fell about 42 '' to 48 '' high . anchorage zone was 42 '' fully grouted resin bolt .
a roof fall meas . approx . 20 ' x 50 ' x 6-8 ' occurred on the 2nd left section between # 6 and # 7 cc . inby spad # 7398. the fall will not be cleaned up
employee was working on top of a bench placing a marker stake near a highwall when the ground under him collapsed , dropping him to a muck pile .
ee was standing on the platform of a komatsu fel when he was attacked by a wasp . ee was holding onto the handhold swatting at the wasp when he lost his balance and fell ~6 ' to the ground suffering contusions to his hip and back and arm strain from holding onto the handhold . the post-accident drug test results revealed that the ee tested positive for thc and opiates .
ee was unloading rock dust bags off truck . felt pain in lower back .
ee was using pocket knife to cut 3/8 '' plastic tubing to be used at job sight . knife slipped while cutting lube coming in contact with his left hand cutting his index finger approx . from the kn uckle to the tip .
ee was driving scraper down a hill ; back end of scraper slid around ; bowl of scraper dropped to the ground ; machine roller over on its sid . ee reported soreness in his legs ; he went to the er to be checked out ; he only missed one day of work .
inundation occurred at the 1st south panel seals which are off the main east intake . foreman found during daily inspection of the mine . he walked over to check the # 4 seal when he saw water coming out of the 4 '' riser . soon after he found water coming out of the 4 '' u-tube in the # 1 seal . mine evacuated . msha 103-k order issued ; lifted 6/8/04 .
a unintentional roof fall has occurred along old5 north return at brk # 20 in the # 2 entry- ( return ) . the fall measures 30 ' long x 20 ' wide x 4 1/2 ft high . the area was bolted with 4 ft resin . there were no injuries or property damage reported .
pulling nails from concrete form boards . nail head broke causing ee to slip & cut forearm on exposed nailhead .
ee was climbing 8x12 access ladder ( fixed ) when he struck his right knee cap on a rung . ee was offered medical at the time incident was reported and refused . appr . 9pm that evening ee sought professional medical treatment . ee was released with no restrictions and returned to work on the next scheduled work day . on 02/17/2015 ee had rx filled .
during his weekly examination a fireboss identified a roof fall in the left return of the 2nd rt . section off of detour mains near spad # 1155. the fall was approx . 20'w x 60'l x 5'-6'h and was supported by 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts the area was mined approx . 6/25/12 the fall will not be cleaned up and cribs have been built .
per notice received from msha , employee has been diagnosed with a sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis . therefore , this report is being submitted . we have not received any notifications of his fillings per worker's compensation carriers ( s ) & neither have received notice either . this claim is not associated with an accident . date of accident is date of notification .
while splicing a cable , ee received 6 staples above the left knee by a utility knife .
injured was shoveling on belt line . he completed the shoveling and was going to go to track . injured went through a man door . he stepped on an old piece of belting causing his foot to slip . in jured did not request medical treatment until 8-20-01 & received treatment on same day .
ee was pulling on drag rope to line it up in the drum groove when he felt pain in his right front chest & right back shoulder area . ee was diagnosed with muscle strain & placed on restricted d uty - no lifting or pulling .
the service hoist # 4703 tripped out . electricians conducted an investigation and found four blown fuses which were replaced . the hoist did not come back on line . the equipment manufacturer was called to site . the technical representative identified faulty scr relays and replaced them .
employee was struck by a cable rope while pulling tension on the cable . they were pulling panline chain off the face onto a chain car . cause of this incident was not moving away from the cable prior to tensioning it up . compliance with rules was a factor , protective equip not a factor , miner attitude a factor , mining systems a factor .
ee was lifting a generator from the ground into the back of a trk causing a strain to his back
ee went out to the quarry to lay out a shot . he slipped on rocks & fell , hurting left knee . then , while walking into the office , ee walked into a well pipe that was sticking out of the ground & hurt left knee even more .
employee was loading bags of salt on pallets in the warehouse . the employee caught one of the bags off-balance and stepped backwards . when he tried to throw the bag of salt on the pallet he he ard a pop in his shoulder and started experiencing pain . the ee has inflammation in the muscles in the shoulder area and there may be some nervedamage .
the ee was operating # 62 a 295 be shovel when his left wrist started to hurt . he through he may have injured it at the start of the shift pulling on a manlift release pin . he saw a chiropracto r who took him off work . the illness was diangosas tendonitis by both a certified nurse practitioner & an m.d .
employee was helping install a gear box on elevator shaft . box fell and caught employee's rightring finger between gear reducer and guard support and tore off fingernail .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by mine examiner in old works . fall measured 20 ' wide x 350'-400 ' long x 8-10 ' high . fall located northwest mains 1st left from spad # 4561 to spad # 4554 then to spad # 4557 .
ee was using left leg to free an electrical cable being pulled with a winch that was hung in a pulling shive . caused hernia .
while ee was getting off the lift , coworker pulled up next to him . the front right tire of the forklift ran over the outside of ee's left foot . ee was was wearing
the mine operator was notified by msha that the employee exercised his rights under 30 cfr part 90 .
during the pre-shift examination prior to 2nd shift at 2:30 p.m. a rock fall was discovered in the # 5 entry at spad 1040. the rock fall was approximately 20 ' x 19'x 5 ' high . this fall was reported immediately to msha supervisor and since the location was in the primary escapeway it was rerouted and all miners informed .
mine lost power due to electrical storm causing an outage . all power was lost underground and employees evacuated via the koepe on emergency generator power . all employees evaucated the mine with no injuries or other issues .
ee was repairing a piece of machinery and something hit his right thumb .
this is an ammended copy this fall was cribbed and timbered off int he # 4 entry . also no.3 entry was stopped from advancing on 2-2-00 after they were bolted . the test holes showed cracks in th e roof there fore the roof was allowed to fall . this was not an unintenional roof fall . fall is app . 140 ft outby working faces .
the intersection one bock inby spad # 1080 in # 8 entry fell 5 ' high x 18 ' long x 20 ' wide . the area was bolted with 5/8 x 60 '' full grouted rebar . no known remove for this fall . area dangered off , set breakers , and will not be cleaned up .
while dropping the head on the roof bolter , the head caught on the knee pad hyperextending the left knee . employee continued working until 10/8 at which time he started missing work making this a lost time accident .
ee was pulling a steel cable up to a platform when he suddenly strained his lower back .
ee states he stepped off pump sled and twisted knee . treated conservatively for 6 weeks . recently had to have fluid drained off knee and is now recordable .
ee was using a forklift to put tires on a loader . carbon monoxide from the forklift causing him to feel faint and made him suddenly .
2 ees were removing bushings from boom arms of said loader w/sledge hammer & bar . this ee was holding the bar when another ee accidentally struck his hand w/hammer .
at the time of the incident , ee was installing a steering control valve on a 793 off-highway truck . while lifting the valve into place he strained the muscles in his lower back .
employee was installing steering cylinder on a komatsu wa-600 . employee had placed ram end in back half of machine and was in the process of pushing up on front end to align it in position . while pushing on cylinder employee felt sharp pain in left shoulder . original diagnosis on 12/5/05 was shoulder strain , then on 1/10/06 after mri diagnosed as rotator cuff tear .
employee was removing a 3 '' piston cylinder . pulling the cylinder off by hand , he was twisting & pulling on the cylinder . when the cylinder was at the end of the piston , the cylinder jumped f ree and hit employee on the lip ; he had suture removal one week later .
employee was tramming the lube truck down the travelway . road conditions caused jarring as he traveled . he experience pain in his lower back & down his left leg .
delivery driver making a fly ash delivery to the cement plant , washing out the bed of the truck . the water hose hit ee in the leg , breaking the leg . degree 9 , not a titan employee . this was a delivery driver .
lab technician was taking kiln samples carrying sample buckets . proceeded to set buckets down , ee was in a twisted position causing strain lumbar region , placed on restricted duty .
while employee was exiting operations cab of # 34 dragline he slipped on the steps and hit his right elbow . no medical treatment required . we were informed on 6/19/03 that fluid started to accu mulate and on 6/24/03 employee went for medical treatment .
ee alleges he strained his left shoulder pulling cable .
employee was inspecting the belt skirting on the # 1 incline belt . as he bent over to look at the flashing he got his left hand caught in a troughing roller .
ee was helping move an electrical cable when the cable suddenly moved after being caught on something and pinned ee's hand between the cable and the end loader bucket . this caused a laceration which required stitches .
ee was walking in 2nd floor to check on refuse belt when he slipped on ice and fell on his left shoulder . pulled muscle in shoulder .
emerald mine has been notified that an employee has filed claim that he suffered a work related hearing loss from working at emeralld mine . this incident is being filed as an occupational illness due to repeated trauma .
a roof fall was found in entry 6 xc 70-71 west intakes . area was mined in august of 2009 and had been supported with 4-6 ' resin pins . no injury or property loss occurred . there are no plans to clean up fall . travelway is being rehabbed in entry 5 and will serve as the new primary escapeway . fall was approximately 35 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8 ' high .
ee was climbing the ladder of a dm45 ir drill toprepare drill for start up . he was in a hurry & lost his footing , falling backwards to the ground lading on right arm.resulted in a knot swellin g up just below right elbow
report of incident on 4/18/2015 employee was crossing over stair case , the staircase rocked causing employee to be unbalanced , he smashed his right thumb and bruised inside of right har when thumb and arm were contacted by the tools he was carrying
employee was assisting msha inspector measure opening of regulator . when she went to hand tape measure back to inspector she was sucked into opening resulting in abrasion and bruising of rt knee . employee removed from work on 4/26 by dr .
injured employee ( ie ) was assisting in the retraction of an inlet probe by means of a hand operated chain lever hoist . during the retraction process a  '' eye and eye wire rope sling being used failed/broke and the rope snapped back and struck the ie's right wrist and iee also lost balance and fell onto left buttocks resulting in wrist and coccygeal strain and contusion .
at apporx 8:00am employee was moving boxed explosives from the magzine to the powder truck when he felt a pop & pain in his lower back . he continued working until 10:00am when he was carrying a box of explosives . he stepped on a rock while wading through water and felt intense pain in his lower back . he the reported his condition to mgt . *initial fax did not reach msha*
at spad ee on 1st right panel off 2nd nw main had roof fall 5'high , 18'wide , 30 ' long . fall did not interfere with air movement or anything else . on worked out section .
reportable hearing loss left ear . tested 7/1/04 confirmed by dr documentation 2/7/05
employee works indoors at the chilton manufacturing building in the splitting department . the employee was splitting pieces and while pulling on a piece of stone , an edge cut the top of his left ring finger .
ee was using improper tools to straighten a crushed bobcat exhaust tail pipe . he was using a large adjustable wrench , & wrench slipped , causing him to cut his index finger on his right hand . h e was wearing leather gloves at time of accident . ee went to the doctor & received 7 sutures . he will return in 2 days to check for infection .
two employees were welding on a bent leg . one employee walked away leaving one . ee was trying to move welding leads when the lead caught on the bent leg . the welding lead caused the leg to fall across his foot .
the ee was using a pry bar to dislodge a rock from the breaker . when the rock moved the bar slipped causing him to fall approx . one foot . ee landed awkwardly on his feet and experienced a shar p pain in the middle of his back . the ee missed one shift because the dr. wasnt in & has been released for full duty .
the cage hoist went down due to an electrical issue on the 01/16/2018 . it was reported to mine management at 11:40 pm that it would not be back up within the 30 minute time frame and a call was made to the msha 1- 800 hotline at 11:50 pm to report it being down .
employee states that he was changing the batteries on the scoop & talking to someone at the same time . he stated the scoop operator had to get his battery cable unhung & was clear to move but injured wasn't paying attention because he was talking & when he told the scoop operater to wait a second he didn't hear him . the scoop shifted & his lower left leg got sauashed .
employee was performing scheduled clean up under a conveyer . he was on his knees reaching material with a shovel when he experienced pain in his right shoulder and neck area . the pain persiste d and he was diagnosed with a right shoulder/ cervical sprain .
icy step on d8 dozer caused ee to slip off . his arm was stuck and caused him to hang by his arm only . serious shoulder injury was sustained . he was changing the oil at the time of the accid ent .
employee was installing a window in shop build- ing when a piece of wood hit him in the left eyewhile putting the window in .
a roof fall was found in # 3 entry , # 9 xc 2nd west 300 ' outby loading point fall 23'l x 18'w x 0 to 4'h .
ee was helping remove drill steel from horizontal hole when his glove was caught and pulled off . his left ring finger had been injured on an off the job injury and when the protective glove wa s pulled off , it pulled the bandage off his previously injured finger . it reinjured the same finger and required sutures in the same wound .
ee said he was bolting top and put too much pressure on drill steel . he stated that steel sprung out and hit his rt arm and thumb .
while preparing to make crusher repair with rented crane and operator , employee on ground was struck by wood blocking being thrown from crane . employee was reaching for gloves left on grownd when hit by blocking . employee has hematoma-contusion to left lower front of leg . employee on light duty work , no loss of time .
employee left a hand written note saying he hurt his knee climbing on stiffleg crane bucket to grease it . the employee stated the next day that it was an existing old injury and that he must of aggravated it . he was in the process of having the knee looked at with his doctors before the work incident .
ee was stepping through mandoor , slipped and fell , injuring lower back and hip . began missing work on 9/14/06 .
employee was using an air chisel to remove bolts and a piece of slag bounced back and hit him in the left cheek . employee was wearing proper eyeprotection .
bad brakes/bad steering , steep grade 15 % . employee was test driving the water wagon on the access road which is on the south side of homested pit . employee must have lost his brakes , popped out of gear , lost steering & tried to jump . he was crushed by the tire .
ee was tightening a strap on a truck when the strap came loose and the hook on the end of the strap struck him on the chin , cutting his chin and requiring 6 stitches .
breaking down electric manlift at end of job . employee was moving the lift backwards and stated he had the pipe in view . he released the pedal and the lift drifted and wedged him between the pipe and control panel .
due to exesive rain fall in a short period of time , a mud slide occured at no 1 portal , partially blocking left return .
ee was loading belt framing for a belt lay . he picked up a piece of framing and felt a pain in his back . he continued to work without restrictions . due to sporadic pain he was scheduled an mri . he was given restrictions on 06/16/2015 that due not allow him to fulfill all duties of his regular occupation .
kenworth tractor trailer truck was in the shop being repaired . the mechanic was letting the hood down , she did not know the driver was trying to get a shop light from the top of the front tire . the mechanic eased the hood over striking the driver causing bruising of the upper body area .
employee was torquing bolts using a torque wrench . he used his shoulder to push the wrench upward causing a compression injury to his shoulder . injury was not diagnosed as a tear to tnedon initially and after months of continuing issue he has elected to have surgery to repair .
miner was climbing down from the longwall stage loader , turned ankle and hurt his right leg / ankle .
ee was assisting another ee remove a wooden track tie from under the track , felt pain in lower back . ee started missing scheduled work on july 15 , 2002 .
employee was using a knife to cut brattice clothand cut his left hand which required stitches .
dismounting ladder from hoist pedestal , stepped into recessed area of deck , fell forward & fall was halted by a chain guard rail . this person works for arch coal inc technical services - he is not an employee of hobet mining , inc .
during rebuilding of mill # 2 , ee was inside the mill performing maintenance . he was tightening a bolt and using his right knee to brace his body to push the bar tightening the bolt . when he finished he said his knee felt like he had strained or pulled something in it . he continued working and had no loss time until his surgery on october 8 , 2012 .
ee was performing clean up work in clinker tunnel and some of the cement material got into her boot . after a period of time she experienced a checical burn to the ankles .
ee was turning steering wheel when his left pinky caught window rail and popped .
employee stated that as he was exiting the truck his foot slipped off the step and he landed on the ground in an awkward maner . he later stated that his knee was sore . he was taken to the clinic as a pre caution where it was diagnosed as a minor strain . return to work regular job .
ee initially injured his lower back on 10/7/13 by placing a pallet on a scissor-lift . the ee was taken to the er and was released without restrictions . on 10/14/13 , ee was filling 50 # paper bags when he felt the pain in his back again . the ee returned to the er and was given a release with restrictions along with medication . wc is questioning the validity of the ee claim .
ee injuried his back while lifting a part to cat 5230 bucket .
roof fall break 41 , 1 break in by spad 296. fall is 20 ft by 20 ft by 4 ft thick . area bolted with 4 ' bolts ( resin full grout ) area developed 5-1-01 4,000 ft out by face area . breakered off fall . fall was found 11-9-01 on weekly examination .
the ee states that while changing a 16 '' tire the tire caught a rubber mallet that was on the machine . the contact caused the mallet to flip up and strike the ee in the upper lip . he was examin ed & 3 sutures were used to repair the laceration . the ee was released to return to work full duty .
while climbing up the ladder on a cat 988b loader to start it up , ee felt a sharp pain in the lower left side of his back .
east 3 , 41 block , # 6 entry , mmu 008 , 4-way intersection . 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 7 ft wide . type of support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , cable bolts , roof mats , wire screen . heintzmann & bars . fa ll dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall , clean up plan posted .
a roof fall occurred on # 5 unit # 1 entry of the 6th sw sub panel approx 15ft inby the dumping point the fall was approx 75'long , 20 ' wide & 5.5 ' thick ventilation was not affected
ee slammed finger in the truck cad door when exiting truck .
ee was granted an award from wv workers ' compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
victim climbed onto pipe to clear acterial form the feed chute . victim slipped and fell approx . 9 1/2 ft to the floor , landing on this side . victim returned to work for his next shift , however on 9-12-01. he reported that he could not come to work and was instructed to see a day .
ee was operating roof bolting machine he was spinning a 12ft cable bolt with boom rotation for installation . he had his hand on the bolt wrenchwhile spinning the bolt . his glove became wrappe d around the bolt wrench.his left ring finger was torn off at the middle knuckle . his left small finger was fractured . he should not have had his hands on bolt wrench
employee did brake check on surface , stoppped twice on ramp with no problems , when got to the 650 ramp brakes failed and miner hit rib to stop . miner was not wearing seat belt and was thrown around in cab .
ee was holding the trailer tongue on a portable used oil tank when a forklift contacted the wheel of the oil tank & caused the trailer tongue to strike the ee in the right side of the head abo ve the eyebrow . this caused a laceration requiring 4 sutures .
mechanical repairman was cutting up scrap metal when they attempted to squat and lift an 8 ' piece and felt a burning sensation in abdomen/groin area . ee ended up re-aggravating a prior hernia injury from 2014 .
ee was working on a 6 '' waterline . as he lifted a shut-off valve he strained his back .
ee was dragging rock dust hose along side of belt when he tripped over a roof bolt , causing him to fall and strike his left shoulder against a piece of water pipe . first lost workday occurred 4/13/05 .
7 mains 2 , 6 entry , 31 block , mmu 002 , spad # 16590 . 25 ft long x 18 ft wide x 7 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 '' resin bolts , pans . fall dangered off , additional roof upport installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
a roof fall appx . 30'x19'x6'8 '' was found on 5-19-2010 in the # 6 entry at spad # 810 appx . 2600 ' from the active face . the roof in this area is mixed and is supported by fully grouted resin bolts and 8 '' cable bolts . the fall did not affect ventilation nor was any equipment or miners affected by the fall .
the ee was putting miner cable down changing places with the miner standing on tip toes to let cable down & pain started in lower back all the way across back . injury was caused from lifting cable .
employee was stepping out of mantrip and strained his lower back .
employees were cleaning out tail pulley material ( conveyor locked out ) but material on belt caused belt to roll backwards and pinch ee's hand in pulley . his left hand has 2 broken bones in fing ers and bruised muscles .
ee was drilling drill bit caught a piece of rbarcausing drill to jerk , spraining wrist
2/17/2015 ee was working with another miner carrying an auger up to the top of a product silo under maint./repair . ee completed his shift on 2/17/15 , but on 2/18/15 notified his supervisor of lower back pain . ee was seen by a phys . and was treated for a strained back ; placed on lifting/bending restrictions until cleared to return to full duty .
employee was carrying an idler bearing for a shuttlecar out to set it down on the mantrip . as he set it down , he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
rock fall occurred on 1 left panel off 002 sections 2 right submains at break 17 through 19 in # 5 entry . fall measured approx . 20 ' wide x 130 ' long x 6 ' thick .
ee was removing the lid from a 5-gallon oil can to use to mix b-bond . he was pulling lid with a pair of channellocks . his grip slipped and ee cut his left hand on lid . ee received 6 stitches in left hand .
during kiln shutdown , employee was helping production helper lift a 5 gallon bucket of 4 '' by 7 '' steel shims onto back of tow motor , when he smashed his right middle finger between the bucket a nd the tow motor . bucket weighed approx 100-125 lbs . this caused a 90 % avulsion of the fingertipon his right middle finger . employee placed on light duty .
a roof fall occurred on headgate 17 in # 2 entry near spad 16805. the fall measured 4 ' by 20 ' by 30 ' . developed approx 5/03/03 had been supported with 4 ' torque tension bolts .
a fall of roof occurred in the # 3 hoist track entry at # 1 bk . fall is 16 ' long to 18 ' long & 7 ' to 8 ' high across the entry . noo equipment involved & no injuries . area was supported with 6 ' resin bolts .
ee was climbing up the steps on the 966 cat end loader when he slipped and fell to the ground injuring his left ankle .
struck with drill steel in the right side of head and arm , trained on roof bolting , wearing proper ppe
emp was repairing a hose , when it slipped from his hand and a metal band around hose cut his thumb .
ee claimed he was picking up rocks to throw out of walkway and felt a pain in his left elbow . he worked until 12-5-02 when he was disabled . there were issues involving this cas that needed fur ther investigation . on 12-23-2002 it was determineds that this was work related .
while tramming the shuttle car he went over a roll in the bottom . he began having immediate back pain . he was taken from the mine , this report is late due to invesigation concerning medica l condition
ee was hoisting a barrel of oil up to the plant . ee said that he thought he heard a pop and he either let go of the hoist handle or his hands slipped . the hoist handle hit him in the face .
ee stated he was walking down mine slop , slipped and fell , causing pain to right groin , possible strain .
comealong slipped , smashing finger agqainst drill mast .
employee stated that he was carrying boom jack cylinder through a mandoor and he twisted his left ankle . he did not begin missing work until 6-1-05 .
employee stated was drilling hole in 4l cc . while installing finishing steel in the hole , a piece of rock fell pinching right thumb between the rock and pusher steel causing a crushing injury . ee was transported to welch hospital . ee was transferred to rgh where ee was admitted overnight . ee underwent surgery and was released the next day . ee remains off work at this time .
ee was loading block onto shuttle car to be hauled to next entry . as ee was getting another block he slipped on a damp rock & fell . the battery for his light caused a bruise on is left lower back when he fell on it
ee felt a burning sensation in right eye after traveling under ore belt . two days later , on 7/5/07 , eye was sore and ee received medical attention . dr. determined eye infection was present and stated that it was unclear whether ee's incident was work related . ee was given prescription medication to treat eye .
roof fall is located in bleeder system 10 breaksinby mouth of panel . panel is 1st left off 1st rmains . air flow not disrupted . fall in intersection 2500 ' from active working section.`
ee lacerated her right hand between the thumb and index finger while banding cathodes . she was wearing neoprene gloves with kevlar inserts but when ee pulled on banding material it slipped and cut her . she was examined by the emergency roomdr. , given 2 sutures and a tetanus shot and given a full release to return to work that day .
while bagging r-1 he felt pain in his left elbowthe doctor diagnosed it as an occupational illness . he was placed on light duty .
ee was working outside building a form . a dust devil occurred resulting in material entering the left eye .
ee was bolting in the # 2 entry in a94 when a piece of shaled flaked off from roof and struck his right bicep .
employee had lime dust fall from surrounding area over him and into his eye , causing a lime burn . employee was prescribed an antibotic ointment .
ee was removing stuck rock and debris from the cutter head on dixie dredge . in the process of kneeling down to dislodge a rock with a sledge hammer , he bumped his right knee on the angle iron that is used as a toe kick on the catwalk . on 3-5-04 he decided that he should be checked by a doctor .
replacing worn metal under crusher . other ee wasswinging sledge hammer to get metal loose . ee reached in to get dirt away . other ee swung and hit ee on left hand little finger .
employee reports hoist drive problems to supervisor . he notifies msha @ 10:40pm of hoist problems adn initiates evacuation . problem found ( blown fuses ) and repairs were made and completed at 6:30am 8/22/2008 . employees return to mine 6:40am .
ee was untightening nut of mantel , when it slipped down . ee had fingers in way and got sutures at end of two fingers .
the section foreman notified the belt man that the belts had stopped . the beltman traveled up # 4 belt to # 4 drive . he told section foreman the drive would not start , he traveled up # 4 belt and notified the foreman the belt looked like it was bound up . the section foreman traveled to # 4 belt and found the rock fall one break inby spad no . 1902. the rock was apprx . 8'h x 12'w x 80'l
ee was taking rope bolts off of the bolting machine in the no . 6 entry . one of the bolts butted against the rib and bent . it slipped from his hand and sprang back , striking his nose .
the employee stated he was riding in no . 4 mantrip when a piece of rock fell from the mine roof and struck him on the top of the head and then glanced off and struck his left hand .
swinging sledge hammer and struck his hand on a piece of steel . his hand required sutres .
the contractor driver slipped when tarping the trailer . msha was notified at 2:47 p.m .
bolting off miner in 2 east and right shoulder popped out of socket while holding bolt in the hole . multiple previous shoulder injuries . diagnosed with strain/sprain and possible chipped bone in shoulder , referred to specialist . no problems with mining machines , training , ppe , or compliance issues .
walking on catwalk , tripped on valve handle , falling and catching left forearm on top adge of screen that was leaning up against the handrail ofthe wet screen , laceration of left forearm .
slip and fall at the bottom of stair case . foculent was dripping in area .
ee was walking by rock duster & tripped & twisted knee when he fell .
ee was walking through the garage . he tripped over a jackhammer and fell . he landed in such a way as to fracture his finger and split the skin requiring stitches .
ee was working on # 5 belt scraper . he was pulling out a belt pin , when he slipped and fell across the belt . he scraped and bruised his right rib and his right leg .
injured was struck in the mouth with a rachet when the head slipped off of bolt .
a rock ( football size ) rolled down and off a catwalk , striking the ground person in the back as ee was bending over shoveling . ee went to the clinic and was put on restricted duty with a bruise to the lower left side of ee's back .
ee was trying to dislodge some sand that built up along the inside of sand hopper - he slipped & hit cross bar - injuring his shoulder .
ee was working on d10r in the radiator compartment and changing around two small pilot lines . the wind blew the radiator guard door closed and the door struck ee on the side of his right hand and pinched his hand . the fleshy side of the hand below the small finger on the side of the hand . ernie stitched up .
pulling rockdust hose and felt pain in groin area was diagnosed with a hernia and his first day of lost work is 5/29/08 .
while stripping wire , utility knife slipped laceating l hand .
an ee was rock dusting on the west mains belt when he slipped on a wet rock dust covered rock.ee did not start missing work until 8-25-03
ee stated ee was operating the shuttle car when a metal strap was loaded into the shuttle car and fell into the deck of the car resulting in a laceration to right hand , middle 3 fingers . ee was treated at the harlan hospital and recieved 12 stitches to the 3 fingers
the ee was working in the bagging area . he was at the pallet conveyor and went to bend over & grab the hand crank to move the pallet and felt something pop in his back when he bent over .
making airway , found fall in # 4 entry at spad no . 772. this is area in gob area . 50 ' length , 20 ' width , 6 ' thick . area is being timbered off .
ee crossed several large stones , approx . 2'x2 ' to be ina position to pull the pump foot valve out of the mud using a rope . when crossing back , he put the rope onto the bank and slipped on an a djacent stone , lacerating his mid right forearm .
filing only to comply w/msha regulations ; however , company's investigation doesn't support employee's report that his shoulder tears occurred at work . company was officially notified 2/22/12 that wk comp agreed to pay claim under a disputed liability . ee notified company on 1/13/12 that approx.5 weeks earlier he was injured & had been doctoring . we are contesting this filing .
banita clip came off a power cable and was caught inside employees mouth resulting in laceration to the inside of his mouth requiring stitches .
employee was lifting an angle iron and felt a pain in his groin area . per call to robert biggans 2-2-05 , hernia was repaired . coder 12 .
unintentional roof fall 6th north panel entries , entry # 4 crosscut # 24 retreat down entries driving rooms to left . 18 ' l x 18 ' w x 6 ' h. bolted with 6 ' - 8 ' tension rebar bolts . 4 way intersection prepped around fall .
ee was moving a chute on a dolly . they had to take the chute off the dolly to maneuver it in a tight spot . while moving the chute it fell over and caught his hand between the chute and a handrail . restrictions were given .
roof fall above roof bolt anchorage , intersection of crosscut 49 , # 4 entry , north submain . fall dimensions 20'lx 25'wx 5 ' h. no one injured , no equiptment involved
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 1 intake at 32 break . ( 1 break inby spad no . 289 ) fall was approximately 18 ' x 20 ' .
the foreman : ee were carrying pipe from the return to # 1 belt . he slipped on the ice & fell .
employee was putting starter on lo-trac , as he was trying to secure the hood , it fell and struck him on the head/face . injury required stitches .
mine lost power 8/23-9:35 am . compromises two ways out . employees stopped work , assembled in lunch room . problem with kcpl-no info on duration of outage . evacuation ordered 9:40 using backup power supply , called msha . evacuation recorded 9:40 . 9:47-employees out of mine and accounted for . phoned msha later in day-employees sent home , will be back 8/24-6:00 am shift .
while conducting the bi-weekly inspection and operation the hosit was unable to decend down the shaft due to a build up of ice in the shaft . the build up of ice covered approx . two-thirds the diameter of the shaft . the mine was immediately evacuated and recovery plans made to return the mine to normal operation .
ee was walking under plant , lost footing causing him to twist right knee and fell on left back side .
ee was walking down the exterior metal steps of pre plant . he slipped on the wet/icy steps and was not holding to the hand rails . he fell and injured his back .
ee was following a coal truck in on the haul road & another worker was coming out ( from job ) . ee said he heard nothing on the cb so he thought no one was coming . the 2 personal trucks hit head -on , driver's side .
based on the information received from those present it appears that the ignition was caused when the continuous mining machine was trimming footwall ( mine floor ) when a spark ignited an unknown methane bleeder near the footwall . msha notified timely .
the ee was allegedly bending over to pick up a cement sample bucket , when he allegedly felt painin right side of lower back
a dump valve he was replacing fell over & mashedthe employee's right finger while he was reacingfor tools .
ee was operating a continuous miner . he was clearing loose roof off the top of the continuous miner . a piece of roof rock fell from between the roof bolts , striking his right forearm . the ee d id not miss any work days and he is working with sutures .
ee was bent down add oil to a hitachi ex1000 . he had been bent down for several minutes on the catwalk running alongside the motor compartment . when he stood up , he stated that he felt a teari ng sensation below his navel . dr.'s statment confirmed that he strained an abdominal muscle .
the contrary portal service cage was down for approximately two hours and 45 minutes due to a rope coming off of a counterweight sheeve wheel . this occurred during testing of the emergency stop system . there were no persons on the service cage and no injuries due to this incident .
ee states he was riding w mantrip to section when mantrip went thru deep and between out causing pain in lower back alleged accident on 10-10-00 was treated as first aid . ee has had back surgr y for previous accident on jan 1995. incident was treated as recorraucne by medical personal of old injury on 11-14-00. medical specialist made assembent that there was a new injury at which
while descending the steps from the control panel to the copper conveyor , the fiber-glass step gave away causing ee to fall through the opening up to his waist . the fall resulted in a scraped left shin , a sore right knee and a small cut to the left index finger .
an unintentional detonation of an undetected charge of explosive material occurred while the gradall scaler was removing loose rock from the back and ribs of the sw-2 face heading .
employee was attempting to move a tail pulley with a 6 ft bar and felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
ee was assisting another ee hauling lumber when he struck his head on an overhanging pipe .
ee received a puncture wound to the right cheek as he was attempting to remove a bit insert with a ball pin hammer . a small sliver of the hammer chipped off as he was beating on the insert .
employee was pulling/hanging miner cable in low coal conditions on-section . ee strained back , ee received medical attention at local er . ee was released and told to follow up with primary care physician .
employee stated that he was riding 3-wheeler mantrip to # 6 head when he decided to cross the track in a place he says he probably wasn't supposed to cross . he stated that he had to go really fast to cross there and when he hit the track it caused his head to bump top .
the employee was stepping from the walkway of the komatsu wa800 wheel loader , onto a step to gain access in order to change the right tilt cylinder hose . he lost his balance when taking the step and fell 11 ' to the ground . he suffered a laceration above his right eye , a broken elbow and facial fractures .
after operating a caterpillar articulating haul truck , ee began to complain of knee pain . ee has been diagnosed with a torn meniscus and will undergo surgery to repair the injury .
lifting shaker screen that sits on 4 coil springs-as screen lifted only 3 coil springs released but not the 4th . when lifting for 2nd time screen released from 4th coil and slowly swing away from plant and then came back . ee put foot out to stop shaker screen and leg got pinched . ee has denied all drug testing demands/request .
tightening head on kelly bar on drill with wrench , wrench slipped and employee moved akwardly and felt pain in lower back .
ees were removing cribbing under jaw crusher . cribbing in 4 '' x 4 '' x 8 ' . the crib hung up on ee , heput his hand on top of crib to push when the opposite end dropped , pinching his left hand betw een the crib and the crusher frame , breaking two metacarpal bones .
working to connect piping in mine , ee used ee's shoulder to support the pipe while lowering the pipe hanger . felt a pop in ee's right shoulder . reported on 9/11/16 , taken to be evaluated and given a full release on 9/13/16 . 9/15/16 , the employee requested an mri and was given a second full release . 10/6/16 the employee was seen by the company doctor and placed on restricted duty .
employee was hosing pellets and was standing on a pile of pellets and lost his footing and fell on his right knee . under further review from the safety committe and further investigations and uncovered further details we found he had previous knee injury .
an unintentional roof fall occurred approximately 2 breaks inby spad 16356 on the low gap mains at 15 break along the old 8a belt conveyor in an adjacent entry . the area was supported with 48 inch fully grouted roof bolts . the fall measured 40ftl x 20ftw x 4fth . all approaches to the fall have been supported . the fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was attempting to get a crib block out from under a piece of metal plate measuring 1/2 '' x 4 ' x 5 ' . it had a sharp edge on it lacerating his left index finger requiring 17 stitches . ee was n ot scheduled for work until 11-3-03 .
ee was tramming a genie manlift when he drove into a small ditch . this caused a jarring motion , up and down , to his back . ee felt pain and was determined he strained his lower back .
employee was granted an award from wv worker's compensation division for occupational pneumoconiosis .
ee alleges that he hit a pothole on the road andsuffered a back injury .
employee was helping a build a brattice while reaching a co-worker a brattice block his right foot got stuck in the mud causing right knee to twist tearing acl ligament , employee became a lost time on 08/06/12 due to this injury .
while moving a roter screen the ee's foot was caught under the edge of the screen when it was placed on the floor . it pinched the ee's foot on the left side behind his protective toe cap
employee was operating loader on haulroad to spread gravel when he drove over a rough patch in the road making the loader bounce . when this happened , the employee felt a sharp pain in his upper back area .
was gettin gout of haulage jeep and tripped and fell tot he bottom straining his right knee .
while adjusting a rotation switch sensor , the employee dropped the screwdriver . when ee reached to grab it , ee's finger was caught by the rotating target .
ee was driving a 465 haul truck and being loaded when a buck was dumped and rocked the haul truck . this caused a pain in ee's neck .
employee was fueling portable compressor diesel tank while equipment was operating . he reached to grab the fuel cap when his right hand ring finger got caught in the fan blades of the alternat or . he was taken for medical treatment where amputation of the right ring finger to distal interphalangial joint was required .
while moving a cart in reverse the operator turned around to see and was steering with left hand . ee got too close to the rib and the front tire caught , spinning the steering wheel out of hand . this caused the ball on the steering wheel to strike ee in the back of hand .
while exchanging gas cylinder , ee slipped and fell , allowing cylinder to fall on his right hand causing a laceration .
ee fell on dredge & hit his knee .
while walking from the thickner , employee slipped on some mud , stumbled but did not fall to the ground and strained his back . he was taken to the er and taken off and released to his next regular shift , 8/13/07 . he reported to work , but complained of pain , was told to see his personal physician , and taken off work until 8/21/07 . ongoing .
ee was in the process of taking a cat pad out ofa continuous miner when the wedge blocking material came out and his hand was smashed between the cat pad and the pan of the miner . which result ed in a hairline fracture to his finger .
ee was helping in the process of welding cutter edges on barge . ee was walking along barge talking to someone and he suddenly turned around to where welder was welding cutter edges , he stepped into a hole that had been opened when lid was remove to check water content in barge . ee fell into hole and bruised himself but at this time he did not seek medical help nor information ee
ee completed pre-op inspection on loader . our investigation indicates ee fell from standing position on ground prior to ascending the loader ladder suffering injury to right hand , forearm and forehead . environmental factors ( weather , ground ) and loader conditions good and non-contributory to this incident . a pre-existing medical condition likely contributed to the fall .
the barge loadout house that houses the barge moving controls and other electrical transformers and breaker boxes caught on fire on an idle shi ft. a truck driver turned it in and a local fire dept extinguished it . the inside of the building was destroyed . the fire lasted for about an hour . it may have been started by an overheated transformer . no injuries .
unintentional roof fall on the 8q longwall from the face to the tailpiece . the fall measured approximately 85 ' long by 18 ' wide by 12 ' high .
oakdale portal elevator was inoperative from 8:02 am to 8:50 am . no injuries , no entrapment . the door latch was stuck & corrected .
employee attempted to raise open raymond mill lid without assistance resulting in lid falling onto right hand , cutting/ crushing 3rd and 4th fingers , fractured end of 4th finger .
deceased truck driver ( customer ) found dead in cab of tractor ( freightliner ) by another truck driver at our truck wash location . death is believed to be from natural causes to be determined by arkansas state crime lab .
after using a gas powered chop saw to cut cement , ee stated was not feeling well and wanted to go home . once home , ee felt the dizziness , headache and nausea could have been caused by inhaling exhaust from the chop saw and sought medical treatment .
was filling water truck & slipped falling to ground landing on his back . says it began to spasm.says this is common when he stresses his back due to on old high school football injury & then f rom an automobile accident from the past .
while riding on a diesel powered man trip enroute to the active mining section the conveyance ran over a ledge in the roadway thus causing the employee hand which his face was resting on to strike his jaw . the impact of which fractured his tooth .
ee was climbing into loader and felt pain in lower back .
helping a co-worker load an i-beam into a ram car , had pain in his low back region . within a few days experienced pain and discomfort to both his low back , hip and leg . he continued to work for the next 7 months . the pain continued ; an mri was taken in june . the results indicated degenerative disc disease in the low back . he started missing scheduled work days on 7-28-06 .
employee was removing a long bolt from a propel cam on the dragline . the bolt came out and the employee caught it with his left hand , pulling his shoulder . as he started down the stairs , he fell and ended up on the dragline shoe . he received a broken humerous , dislocated shoulder and a laceration to his right leg requiring sutures .
ee reached to stop a rock from rolling and his finger ( ring finger on right hand ) was smashed between two rocks .
employee struck his hand ( l ) with a hammer while working on a continuous miner . he did not start missing work until 7/23/2005 .
employee was using torch to cut link out of conveyor on feeder where the hose connects to the handle . the hose ruptured & burnt his left arm . ee went to the hospital & was treated & released . ee worked his next shifts on friday & sunday & then was off due to the injury , he plans to return to work on 4/3/06 .
ee was tightening down his load using a cheater bar on the come-along handle when the bar slipped off the handle and struck ee on the chin .
mechanical work resulting in chronic bilateral median mononeuropathies at the wrist . first saw doctor on 12/14/2012 . did not miss work till 3/14/13 when he had surgery on wrist .
ee was driving a mule and felt material get in their left eye . ee flushed out eye and requested a medical evaluation . ee was given a prescription .
ee was loading steel grading and pinched his right hand between pieces . laceration to his middle finger , right hand - required sutures .
ee dismounted a d-11 dozer incorrectly , resulting in his left foot slipping & his body falling forward . he was able to hang on to the grab rail by the engine compartment , but his left foot bec ame caught near the step , resulting in a fracture of the tibia & fibula above the left ankle .
roof fall at no 5 entry between 15 & 16 x-cut on 2 south mains . fall was 20 ' wide x 50 ' long x 5'-9 ' thick . cleaned up fall and rebolted area . 10 day reporting window extended due to mine holiday and vacation .
ee reported : helping coworkers place explosives on large rocks in front of shields at tailgate area of longwall face line . he was standing under shields no . 136 & 137 when a small piece of roc k fell from between the two shields . the rock struck the back of his head just under his protective mine cap resulting in a small laceration and a mild concussion .
employee was helping to move the roof bolter machine out of # 4 entry-the roof bolter operator backed machine upon a rock bolter slid off rock-causing it to move forward and toward rib bolter t bar striking him and pinching him against t bar and rib starting losing time on 1-23-06 .
ee was in the process of making a batch of slurry . she cut a bag of caustic soda open to add to the batch and some of the granules got into her left eye . she immediately began flushing the eye with water and was taken for further medical attention .
ee was moving a rubber mat in the mine area . ee tripped over the mat its self or the uneven terrain and fell awkwardly on to right leg . ee had pain in right knee and slight pain in right ankle .
working with 2 fellow employees on the west side of the wet screen using a hydraulic torque wrench , one employee positioned the torque wrench over the nut , the second held the bolt in w/a hammer wrench braced against the structure & a third activated the hydraulics . ee pinched his finger between the structure and the hammer wrench
ee was sandblasting on elevated platform wearing personal fall arrest gear and ppe . ee sandblasted one of the nylon straps causing the platform to tilt . ee slid down platform , but fall gear stopped fall . ee lost control of the blast hose , and it remained operational . the freefloating hose then turned toward ee . ee sustained sandlblast injuries to face , hand & leg .
a screen panel was being replaced in a triple-deck screen by two mechanics . one mechanic was working inside the screen loosening the fasteners with a battery impact and ratchet wrench . while ratcheting , the mechanic felt and heard a pop in his right shoulder . a medical evaluation revealed a strained/sprained tendon , and the mechanic was placed on restricted duty for healing .
miner was shoveling tabular balls into a chute . when the miner finshed , he turned and hit his head on a support rail . miner was wearing a hardhat at the time of the incident .
ee handling piece of steel wear plate in a conveyor feed chute when the plate dropped from its position and cut ee's finger . cut required 5 sutures .
employee slipped when entering mantrip and felt knee pop . he began missing work 11/27/06 .
roof fall was discovered on e-mains # 6 entry @ # 9 cross-cut spad # 80. outby section and loading points . developed sept. 2005 . 190 ' coverage . area bolted with 6 ' double lock bolts , 7/8 '' dia . grade 75 , 8x8 inch roof plates with roof screen installed . fall measured 25 ' long , 20 ' wide x 9 ' high . no injuries or equipment involved . no ventilation or escapeway blockage .
ee was working on an automated loading machine that picks up marble slabs by suctioned the slabs stuck together . ee tried prying them apart by hand causing strain .
man was working on the 4th floor of a surface mill when he was asked to go to the bottom level and act as a hole watch . although the stairs were right next to the work area , he went approx . 60 ' to a manlift belt . he caught his right heel on the upper floor grating as the platform went down , tripping him back and causing him to fall off the platform about 7 ' to the deck below .
ee was raising gate on silo # 14 with pry bar . bar slipped , hitting rt . index finger . ee lost nail and had laceration that required 2 stitches .
ee was swinging sledge hammer and hit his left foot .
ee was walking towards face from power center , when a piece of rock 1/2 inch thick , 7 inch x 8 inch fell from the roof , striking him in the left side of his head . 90 ' inby spad # 1691 ( area of accident is 10'high )
ee was using a six foot cheater bar and wrench to change a tire , they were pulling on bar and wrench when it slipped and ee fell back and hit the truck cutting his right eye .
some rock had falled onto the longwall panline . the employee was breaking the rock with a sledge hammer . he complained of pain in his lower right side of his chest .
employee was standing in front of 2 ft high concrete blocks . when he turned to wlak away from job , he tripped over the concrete block , falling on his right arm . he broke his arm above the elbo w , but returned to work with restricted duty .
while advancing bolter into a cert a piece of roof rock fell from between bolts & struck ee on back of neck . compliance not a factor , rules & regs not a factor . failure to observe roof condt
ee was installing return roller on belt , pushing upward with left shoulder & felt a pop in shoulder . went to dr & given something for pain.ee ret 'd to dr 12/27 when pain returned . the accident became reportable at that time .
employee was working around the product bagging area when he felt like he had gotten something in his eye . he finished his shift , but his eye was still irritating him on monday august 2 so he sought doctor's treatment . no foreign object was found by the doctor . employee was given an opthamalic prescription and released back to full duty .
a frictional methane ignition occured on the longwall face , shield no . 130. the flame was extinguished in 3-5 seconds .
worker exiting back of service truck stepped on tailgate which ee did not realize was unlatched , causing worker to fall backwards , landing on right hand/wrist .
a roof fall was discovered on a-mains , no . 8 entry & intersection at survey station no . 800. thefall was approx . 60 ' long x 30 ' wide x 8-10 ' high . the fall contained 6 ' resin bolts & was devel oped jan 1998. the fall was dangered off and timbers set at approaches . it will not be cleaned up at this time .
miner was skipping a stoper drill from the 3rd level to the stope level above . a rock was dislodged from the stope floor and fell down the raise , striking the miner in the face , breaking his safety glasses and injuring his right eye .
employee jumped off equipment . ee jacket got caught and ee fell . **employer did not learn of injury until after ee quit job on 6/1/18 and started a workman's comp claim**
beltrami was tightening a spring break on # 85 tractor with a wrench and pulled his right shoulder .
ee was roof bolting - while doing so he scraped his back across a bearing plate causing a laceration that required sutures .
employee was fueling a rock truck when the fuel hose came out of the fuel tank neck . in doing so he attempted to jump out of the way and stumbled . he fell on his wrist causing a stress fractur e and is wearing a soft cast .
walking beside roof bolter when a piece of draw rock about 12 '' w x 12 '' l x 2 '' thick fell from mine roof hitting ee right foot f/x to right foot .
ee was loosening a take up bearing adjuster when the wrench that he was using slipped off and hit him in the mouth .
excavator disturbed a bee hive and ee was near it . ee received 5 stings
a roof fall occurred measuring 70'long x 18'wide x 08-10'high outby spad 2587. no equipment was involved , no ventilation was disturbed , no injury occurred & the fall will not be cleaned up .
operator was loading material in the crusher . a large rock became stuck , when ee climbed the stairs to inspect the problem ee's foot slipped and ee fell . ee hit ee's side on the rail and fell to the ground .
a roof fall occurred in the east parallels at cross-cut # 11 in the intersection of # 6 entry and extending 1/2 the pillarline towards # 5 entry and 1/2 the pillarline towards # 7 entry measuring 50ft . x 19ft . x 6ft . this area was mined in may 2000 and supported with 6ft . tension rebar bolts . this fall was caused by an undetected slip .
employee was walking through some mud and water that was deeper than ee realized . ee was carrying miner bits in one hand and lunch box in the other . ee foot slipped and ended up twisting knee .
two employees were carrying a rack wheel onto the face of the e-29 lw section when the rack wheel moved causing the weight of the wheel to shift towards the injured employee which in turn caused the ie to strain lower back .
while installing supplemental bolts on the 2b longwall face , the ee was struck on the left foot by a piece of material , which fell from the top . the impact caused him to fall , striking his left shoulder .
ee was standing on the ladder of the maintainer when his knee popped and began to hurt .
debris fell from above while scaffoldi boards were being removed causing to fall onto ee and get in his eye .
emp . was driving cu106 boom rig around a rib at main shop . he hit a pothole which caused the air ride seat to hit bottom and jar his lower back . he said he felt no immediate pain . later in the day the pain increased . when he went home for the weekend he started taking oxycontin . injury reported on 1/10/11 .
ee bruised his right knee while crawling in mine .
ee tried to catch a 12 ' ladder that was falling . this caused him to feel pain in his right shoulder and arm .
ee lifted box of dynamite , twisted or strained lower back .
ee was pulling belt when his visegrip slipped & he fell to the ground injuring lower back .
the ee climbed up on arubber tire dozer ( rtd ) to get a serial number off the torque converter . he bent over and twisted and his lower back popped . he reported it to hsi supervisor . he was tran sported to the er by ambulance .
a pillar fall occured entrapping 4 mobile post supports between # 24 & # 25 coal blocks . the mineroof started working due to excessive roof weight all men were brought to the surface & msha notified . note : all falls will be plotted on mine map once area is safe to re-enter
outby roof fall crosscut 11 of # 4 entry , 1-rt sub-main approx . 15 ' x 20 ' x 10 ' in height , no one injured , no equiptment involved fall partially blocked primary escapeway and ventilation was not significantly affected .
at about 4:40am ee said he was preparing to fuelan end loader in the parking area . he was pulling out the hose on the fuel truck and stumbled across a pallet lying next tothe loader , causing him to fall & fracture his right leg below the knee .
employee was closing the door on a stedman crushe when he lost his balance and fell .
ee was using the hose on the water truck and when he pulled on the hose the reel stuck and the hose didn't come out . this resulted in low back pain with restrictions .
ee was working on a loader that had its cab & transmission removed . he was where the transmission had been , cleaning the area . he raised an access panel on the hood to give himself more room . his hard hat fell off . he stood to replace it , the wind blew the access panel shut striking him in the head before he could replace his hard hat . he required 4 stitches , 1 day off work .
employee was walking down stairs , misjudged stepdistance due to looking through the bi-focal part of his glasses and fell down several steps . as a result of the fall , his arm was cut and requi red surgery to repair .
roof fall 20 ' wide , 60 ' long 6'- 8 ' thick . location # 5 entry , spad 21 + 04 in the 7th subpanel north . ( abandoned panel )
roof fall ( 7000-1-001-06 ) : location : outby 1 north 3 west seals - # 4 seal . dimensions : h:6-10 ' , w:19 ' , l:280 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in roof . roof support : 6 ' hytech point anchor bolts . the area was mined in june 1993. prominent roof jointing or slips in the roof were the apparent cause for the fall .
allegedly , ee was descending a 10 ' steel ladder and missed bottom rung . he caught himself , but twisted the middle of his back . ee didn't lose any time until 11-17-01 .
ee was leaving from work when she slipped on ice and broke her ankle . it was a very hot day the day before but then snowed as the sun went down , re-freezing everything that had been melting . heidi lost her balance and fell straight down to the parking lot .
an employee backed over another employee's foot with a forktruck . the cause was due to the inattention of both employees .
injured employee was removing his outer shirt when he struck his head against a roofbolt plate .
employee was operating a motor and while dismounting vehicle . she placed her foot on motor step and twisted around to step down . when she did she twisted and felt pain in her right ankle . she could not get in to see an orthopedist until 7/20/07 and was dr with a fracture of the fibula .
employee was prying with a slate bar on a piece of metal . the metal slid off the 4x4 blocking and shifted all the weight on to the slate bar . the slate bar struck his ( r ) foot .
driving fork lift under coneyor and clump of dirt fell on forks . dirt particles intered right eye . did have prescription medicaiton .
ie was attempting to remove mud from the transmission housing of a pickup truck . ie violated co policy by not chocking the wheels , not locking/tagging , and not de-energizing the truck prior to maintenance . resulted in truck moving while ie was still on ground with the tire of the truck contacting ee resulting in a broken clavicle and a laceration to ear
while mining in # 7 entry the miner operator heard the roof cracking a few times . the foreman then checked the area & found the roof to be solid-test taken : while the foreman was present the ro of started cracking again . the miner was moved to # 5 entry , this is when the xcut from # 5 to # 7 started working & caved .
ee was fueling his dozer at the end of his shift , when he slipped and fell from the dozer , to the ground .
while installing the drive belt on a screen an ee got his finger caught b/w the belt and the screen sheave and cut the end of his finger . dueto a broken motor mount the ee was not able to fully adjust the mount properly and was rolling the belts on when the accident occurred .
iw strained lower left back while shoveling raw materials .
roof fall at # 8 entry across from spad # 1674. fall is approx . 120 ' long and 20 ' wide and knocked at part of stopping . msha inspector was on job site and we checked it out . fall was above anchorage- looked to be at least 10 ' high . 5 ' and 6 ' double lock bolts appeared to be adjacent to fall area . area was developed approx . june of 2002 .
injured employee was mounting wirtgen continuous miner and struck head on air conditioner . employee jammed their neck .
injured party was loading 5 gal oil cans off a wooden pallet onto an oil trailer when the 5 gal can of oil fell off the pallet suddenly causing him to pull a muscle in his right shoulder tryin g to hold the can .
wleders were adding an extension onto a hopper that takes the rock to the mill . they were moving a beam in place and had very little body positioning space , so he used his back to lift instead of knees . pulling lower abdomen muscles , resulting in a hernia .
ee states he was using pry bar to free pipe stand from mud . bar slipped & he struck tooth causing part of tooth to break off .
picking up a hopper with the forklift loose proppant fell down into his left eye
the # 4 winze cage hoist was disabled due to electrical problems . three problems were identified , defective circuit board in siltromm control , a defective relay switch and also replaced a refer ence potientiometer . the cage hoist was fully operational at 5:30 pm june 16 , 2000. the skip hoist was available to hoist personnel during any emergency while repairs were being made .
employee was backing a dozer from shot to unshot material . the dozer raised up and abruptly came down causing the employee to experience pain in his neck between his shoulderblades and left arm . he was medically evaluated and referred to physical therapy .
employee was helping 2 other men remove a tail pulley . the two men lifted their end of the pulley causing the weight to shift , hurting the other employee'sm back . back injury was listed as a l umbar strain .
while searching through boxes in connex trying to locate bolts in order to complete daily task , ee states that his footing slipped on a rope in floor . as he caught his balance he reached out and placed his hand through a pane of glass in connex window .
as mix operator , ee lifts 50 lb bags off palletts , and emptys content into mix pot . incipient date unclear , although he states that he was aware of low back discomfort starting near the end of his shift for some time . on 8-8 states that although it was no more than usual it did not go away during the night , sent to clinic where objective findings for repetitive injury .
employee worked on # 2 merrick belt shoveling and operated a 30 '' steam valve in gr3 . on the ride home from work the employee's back became sore and locked up . restricted to no overtime for two weeks on 6/26/08 .
ee lifting rock out of crusher , strained and tore muscles causing hernia .
pulling minr cable with mac-8 , a piece of rock fell between roof bolts hitting employee on left foot .
ee was getting off big bagging machine and twisted his left ankle - spraining it .
this occupational illness claim became msha reportable upon notification of claim being accepted by labor & industries . occupational illness - msha report - lost time as of 1-15-01 .
while loading a structure trailer into the belt-line , a crew member grabbed a rail and started to load , as he jerked the rail out he struck ee in the nose .
employe is unsure about how or when a foreign body entered his eye while on duty . medical treatment was received .
tireman developed weakness and numbness in his right hand over a period of 25+ years of working . after evaluation by a physian it was determined that he had cts and that surgery was necessary to correct this condition . on 7/21 it was the physian decided that surgery would be preformed on 7/26 , so that is the day that is being used to report as day of accident ( illness ) .
employee was performing routine housekeeping ; was removing dirt and rock from underneath the under-screen conveyor of the jaw . ee's shovel got caught in a return roller , which pulled ee's arm into the roller . ee freed self , but suffered major burns on right shoulder and arm .
repairing hydraulic pump on 980 cat loader . foot slipped , lower left leg sustained contusion . diagnostic x-ray , celebrex for pain .
ee was splicing a cable when the knife slipped and cut his right leg . he rec 'd 5 stitches .
ee was shoveling to clean up area . he pulled something in his back but is unsure of exactly when it happened .
the ee was working on the maintenance of a conveyor belt , he didn't stop the machine to clean it , then the machine hurt a finger of this ee .
while taking down roof bolter cable , the operator of the bolter turned on the reel . the cable suddenly struck his lower legs causing him to fall . on 3/10/03 he was diagnosed for crack in humer ous and began missing time .
a fall of the roof occurred on # 4 unit , # 6 entry across from the feeder 40 ' outby spad # 30565 in the 4th ne panel . the fall was 130'long , 20'wide , and 5'thick . no ventilation or personell were affected . the fall landed on the back of a three-wheeler .
a roof fall occured in entry 2 - 3 of the main southwest @ survey station 0+70 measuring 40'long x 19'wide x 6'high . all approaches to this area have been timbered off .
a custom made guard was made for a pit . the emp . kicked the 15lb guard to knock in place . the heal of his boot caught the guard . the emp . felt some pain to his right knee . emp . continued working however later in the day his right knee swelled with increased pain and he was unable to get out the man trip . emp . taken to doctor and placed on restrictions .
a roof fall occurred at 28 wall on 1-north belt.the fall was above the ancorage . it entrapped noone or any equipment . it affected ventilation . the fall was 30'x 20'x 14 ' high .
employee was on top of open top railcar observing a maintenance task , when employee lost balance and fell over the edge of the railcar . employee fell to the ground and sustained significant injuries .
notification by msha of possibility of pneumoconiosis .
the ee alleges he hurt his back on 10/2 but did not report any injury . i spoke to the ee on 10/28 via telephone after trying several times to contact him . he states he was putting on a repaired hydraulic hose on his haul truck and hurt his back . he left work on 10/8 when he was told to find a water leak in his truck . the ee also filed for unemployment .
picking metal out of section feeder , a rock fell down striking left small finger cutting the finger through the glove . ppe was not a factor , compliance of rules/regs not a factor , mining equipment/system not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
ee was cutting a metal band off of a bundle of roof bolts and the band flipped back and his his left eye . he had to have surgery to remove a piece of metal from his eye . started missing work 3/5/09 .
ee was changing a bit on a continuous miner when he was struck by a piece of mine roof . he was knocked into a bit lug & chipped his tooth . the remaining portion of that tooth was removed a couple of days later .
on april 10 , 2000. employee reported that his right arm and elbow were sore . the employee visited a dr on 4-14-2000 and was diagnosed with tennis elbow . he has been given anti-inflammatory medication , exercises , and an elbow brace . there are no restrictions on work duties . the likely cause is from repetitive lifting and placing of cement sacks onto wood pallets .
a temporary staffing service employee was washing a 250ml erlenmeyer flask with a bottle brush . during this process the flask broke and a piece of glass penetrated a nitrile glove and cut the palm of the injured employee's right hand . the injury resulted in the employee receiving 6ea . stitches and a return to work release with no work restrictions .
ee was using a sledgehammer to clear a pluggage on a process line . his right index finger got caught between the hammer handle and a process pipe . x-ray of the finger revealed a fracture . ee place on restricted duty .
employee was attempting to attach a chain around a refuge chamber door to a forklift fork . as the fork was being boomed out his right arm was inadvertantly pinched between the fork & the door .
emp was lifting re-railer under railroad car and sprained back .
injured was pulling a beam in from the b hoist well and felt a burn in his back and numbness in his right leg . he continued to work and started missing on 7/16/11 .
employee had placed 2 catheahs on desk during unloading supplies . while cleaning the office floor he bumped a chair which caused one of the cateads to fall off the desk striking his left index finger cauging a fracture to the first joint .
there is no specific incident related to this illness . the ee believes after conferring with his dr. because he is often on his knees , it could be that due to grinding dirt into his skin and infection developed . although he first missed work 10/12/10 he did not report to the mine it was work related until 11/12/10 .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred on horse creek mains # 7 entry right return 1 break inby spad 374. the fall was approximately 40ft x 18ft x 6ft to 8ft . no injuries were reported and no equipment was involved .
he stepped on a motor base in the top of an old loadout to look for a hole in the chute and slipped and fell on his back . he fell one foot to the ground , bruising his back .
employee states as he was walking to mantrip he stepped on an unknown object , straining his right knee which resulted in a torn acl / mcl .
ee was getting off the bus and stepped onto uneven ground , twisting his left ankle . he was evaluated by a physician and placed in a walking boot and released to full duty . use of the walking boot has restricted his activity and he is working modified duty .
a roof fall occurred in the 1w return at xcut 40 entry # 1./ the fall blocked safe access to # 3 seal of the 1l1w seals . the fall was located in a 4-wqy intersection . the caused of the fall was weak laminated shale .
the injured was moving a fire proof file cabinet with a dolly underneath it . he and three co-workers were pushing and pulling on the cabinet . the injured felt sudden pain on his lower left bac k for a while and the next day he complained that his back was still aching .
employee was using a magnetic drill . it was snaged , and spun around and hit the him in the left forearm . he should have had the drill attached to a safety strap . he went home after he went to the dr and return to work 3/30/07-light duty . dr released him 4/5/07
a frictional methane ignition occurred on the longwall face , shield no . 32. the flame was extinguished within a minute .
while replacing pivots in the scales , i was holding pivot in place adn began to hammer . hand slipped forward and hit it with hammer in turn pushing hand into pivot . pivot had been coated with antiseize and grease .
a rock burst was discovered in the 4000-226 rasie and stope . it showed up on the rock burst monitoring system on saturday 10-23-04 at approx . 11:30 am . no one was owrking at the time . damage to the raise occurred at stope level ( 26 sets up form the sill ) and 11 sets above ( 66 feet ) . slight damage occurred int he east stope .
# 3 hoist tripped at 7:45 pm with `` drive converter a '' fault . electrician came out of the mine and repaired a contactor and reset the hoist . hoist was back in service at 9:00 pm . there were still two escapeways during the incident .
the employee was washing his area with a hose . the hose had a small amount of caustic running through it . while he was dragging the hose he accidently turned the valve open spraying himself in the face .
the miracle run elevator doors would not open . the schindler repairman determined that a steel cable that opens & closes the automatic doors was broken . the cable was replaced & the elevator was returned to service @ 1:30 pm .
employee was removing an old hooder above a box car and realized he was tied off to the hooder when it broke free knocking him off the top and sending him to the ground . he was able to disconect before he hit the ground . he sustained damage to his pelvis , right shoulder and left knee . no surgery or bracing of any kind was needed .
a roof fall occured in entry # 1 of the 1st west sub main at survey station 31410. the fall measured 50 ' x 19 ' x 6 ' . this area had been bolted with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
area fell between # 2 & # 3 entries return , 3,000 ' from active section . area developed 5-10-01. roof is slate bolted with 4 ' & 6 ' resin . fell rib to rib , 3-4 ' thick . there is a 1 inch rider about 2'-3 ' up . fall is directly across from spad 299. fall will not be moved .
a roof fall was discovered during an examination at the mine . the fall was located in the return aircourses on the 3 right panel . it measured approximately 30 ' in length , 20 ' wide and 4 ' thick . the area had been previously bolted with 42 '' fully grouted bolts . there were no injuries , no damage to equipment , and ventilation was not affected .
injured worker was removing a gearmotor from the main spray tower tipping valves when the unit fell onto the injured workers left foot .
truck driver was doing pre-op check at start of shift on # 219 pro-truck . he was descending the engine access ladder when he slipped . he landed on his feet , falling only about 1 foot . he experi enced a low back strain that later resulted in lost time . we recently received medical confirmation of this injury .
a contract employee was building a block wall at 30 xc on the 4th sw right side . ee was stacking block on the wall , when ee picked up a block and started walking toward the wall , ee tripped on another block lying on the ground . ee went down on left knee landing on the side of the block , causing a sprain/ contusion . the employee was taken off work .
when preparing to drill outside bolt , a rock fell from the mine roof , hitting ee on the left arm . cut his arm , received 11 stitches .
ee was getting out of loader , put foot on first stepdown when he stepped on 2nd step his foot slipped and he held onto a rail on loader pulling his right shoulder . sprained right shoulder , elb ow and wrist . steps were wet it had been raining .
while pulling on gusket material a 2 '' x7 ' pipe fell striking ee on the nose .
ee slipped on mud on the concrete behind the shop and dislocated his left knee . he will be on restricted duty for several weeks .
ee was prying with a bar on the exavator track when the bar slipped causing ee to fall and feel pain in his back .
ee was making belt move with strained his lower back while putting in bottom roller .
slipped when exiting screen , fell to catwalk striking right side on handrail . bruised right side i the rib area . note : incident was originally classified as a dr first aid ( non-reportable ) upo n follow up observation physcial therapy ultrasound prescribed on 1-5-04 and is now reclassified to dr treatable .
ie and another ee were inspecting the vsi crusher . ee was on top pulling on the handle and as the door lifted ie was helping by pushing on the bottom of the lid . when the door was partially open ie thought ee had control and quit helping and the weight was to much for ee to handle . the door slipped out of ee's hand and fell onto ie's right hand .
ee was opening a metal container of welding rods , when he took his glove off to get a better grip he cut his finger on the edge of the container . ee needed four stitches to close the laceration . working light duty , working the same hours .
ee was installing a new electric motor on a crushing plant when the other person ee . who was helping him hold the heavy motor lost his grip and the motor fell onto ee s left ring finger and cu t same requiirng stitches .
a plant operator was installing a bullwheel on a crusher unit . the spreader bar that the bullwheel was mounted on swung back towards the employee . the employee's fifth ( pinky ) finger was pinched between the spreader bar and a bracket causing a fracture and a laceration that required sutures to close . he returned to work that same shift .
direct contact with 2 employees w/active tb . tested positive . also chest x-ray & lung culture . employee did not report until 3/17/03 .
an unintentional roof fall was found in the sub main # 5 entry on mmu 200-0 measuring 12 ' wide by 50 ' long and approx . 5 ' thick . this fall doesn't affect ventilation or travelways and has been timbered off .
a roof fall occurred on the # 3 intersection on the # 3 section 1 x-cut outby spad # 46076. the fall measured to be about 20 ' wide , 30 ' long and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 5 ' trouge tension bolts . the fall will be cleaned up and re-bolted and cribbed .
ee was unhooking skid from wagner scoop , when the ram came forward and pinched little finger on left hand while he was unhooking chain . laceration which required 7 stiches to close wound .
ee states that he was climbing down off of his front end loader when he felt a pinch in his back .
ee states he was working on a truck removing a flywheel . he does not know how he got some metal in his eye .
employee went to see doctor with numbness in hi sleft hand , after test were done the doctor said he had carpal tunnel syndrome in his hand . the doctor also said his right hand is experiencing some symptoms . doctor said it was from repetitive motion of operating a loader for several years .
while the employee was hooking up a hose for the pressure pump , the manifold blew off and the water force knocked the ee into the feeder , thus bruising his hip . the ee was placed on restricted duty . *first day restricted duty 07/13/00 .
ee was returning to the security station from her patrol of checking change rooms . she slipped on a patch of snow covered ice and fell . she fell backwards hitting her back , tailbone and back o f her head agaisnt the ground . she has sore neck & headache .
roof fall in the brushy mains between survey stations 14081 & 14085 in between # 1 and # 2 entries . msha inspector found this fall during his examination .
did not start losing time until 7/22/04 . he hit his head on a dolly on monarail and had pain in his neck . he has had nerve blocks . did not help . started losing time on 7/22/04 for surgery .
while laying track on 4 section , moving rail with lo trac , operator let rail down onto employee's left foot . employee did not start losing time until 3/19/2009 .
the employee was opening an access/ inspection door on level 8 of the preheat tower . he attacheda come-a-long to the door and raised it . the recessed in and has to be manhandled to manuver it . as the employee was pulling the door away from the frame . his right ring finger was pinched .
ee was assisting hang monrail structure in the no.3 entry of the c-5 longwall panel . he was attempting hook one end of a piece of structure intothe piece that had just been hung . the end of th e structure slipped out of ee's hand & in his attempt to catch it , he strained his left shoulder . he began to miss work on 8/15/01 due to problem
employee aligning large pipe ( 12 '' to 14 '' ) diameter to install a tee in the pipe line - was using a chain and komatsu-wa2oo , put self in twisted postion to assist in the lift .
current audiogram shows sts from comparison audiogram .
a roof fall was discovered in the no . 6 entry inby spad no.1394 . the fall measured approximately 18 ' x 18'x 8 ' high . there were no injuries with this occurrence .
while installing roof bolts in # 3 entry a rock fell from the top and bounced off the drillpot and struck him in the upper lip & nose area . he sustained a laceration to his upper lip area .
ee was working inside silo 18 cone in a sitting position when he got up he felt a sharp pain in his back .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 5-block mine that measured approximately 20 ' long x 10 ' wide x 6 ' high . the fall fell behind the continuous miner , cutting the cable . the miner was in the # 4 entry , spad # 189. no injuries were reported . the area was developed 5-7-09 .
employee was working on 785b and needed to climbladder to gain acces to the brake accumulator . the ladder on his truck was a 6 ' ladder and was too short . he got the customer's 10 ' wooden ladd er . while climbing the ladder , it broke causing employee to fall .
injured was setting up actuaries on fan deck at dust collection baghouses . finished one and turned around to change another when he stepped into a void left by a piece of grating that had been removed and not replaced . injured suffered a strain to the right shoulder when he caught his fall .
employee initially stated he was walking alongside the no.6 belt and dragging a rockdust hose when his right knee started hurting . medical received 10/18/01 shows , 1.findings compatible with p revious meniscectomy . 2.small cyst adjacent posterior cruciate ligament . 3.mild degenerative changes . he had right knee surgery 1989 , right knee strain 1987 , right knee injury 1982. this is n
employee was using a box cutter to open box of caps when cutter slipped and hit his right hand . ee received lacerations to the left hand requiring stitches . ee was taken to doctor . ee was rele ased with no restrictions .
employee was sitting in rail motor and a loose car came back and hit motor . employee injured his left shoulder . he had hurt the same shoulder before and required surgery in 2001. started missi ng work on 2/18/04 .
the ee was assisting co-workers in carrying a 15 ft steel rail into the 4th main north belt line , as they went under the waterline , he felt a pain in his lower back .
after turning a right handed crosscut , ee was backing out of the 4rt cut when a piece of draw rock fell . the draw rock rode back along the rib . the rock was approx . 12 ' l x 3'-4 ' w x 6 '' thick . the rock pinned his right foot to the mine floor .
ee was getting into the trackhoe and lost his footing on the step and fell . ee tried to catch himself and felt his shoulder pop . it rained the previous weekend and the tracks were muddy .
a roof fall occured in the # 4 entry main south @ survey station 3 + 60. the fall measured 40 ' long x 19 ' wide x 15 ' thick . this area had been bolted with 5 ' fully grouted and 9 ' double lock bolts . the area will be cleaned up and rebolted .
north 6 , 15 block , xc 2 to 1 , mmu 002 . 30 ft wide x 18 ft long x 7 ft high . support : 6 3/4 in resin bolts , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
ee was working on a scoop in the no . 3 right crosscut , when a rib rolled off , pinning him against the scoop .
ee was walking in front of mike davis's office and he turned to walk on sidewalk . he then turned his ankle and his knee .
ee was using a 3/4 '' drive ratchet bar and socket ot remove bolt of final drive cover . the bolt broke loose causing ee to hit his left side of his face ont he frame of the shearer cutting his ear and face . ee had 4 stitches putin his ear .
ee was pulling drill steel out of drill pot that was stuck . when the drill steel dislodged it struck the employee over his right eye causing a laceration requiring stitches . no lost time .
the ee was splicing a wire on top of the # 3 kiln backend . the wind started blowing dust from the stockpile & the kiln backend . no matter what direction the ee turned , the dust still got in his eyes .
employee was working out of the bucket of the loader when apperently the ventilation elbow tubing shifted hitting the employee in the lower left leg .
employee was a passenger in a mantrip traveling out . while backing up the mantrip ran into rib and hit employees arm against the rib . employee went to good samaritan hospital sustaining a contusion to his arm . doctors ordered to remain off work for an uncertain period of time .
on 2/14/13 a millwright was removing a stuck upper nose roller pin on the fairlead frame of the 12dl when the pin popped loose striking the technician on the side . the tech continued to work while being seen by a physician over the next several months . on august 8/22/13 he received medical treatment that makes this incident a medical reportable injury .
ee was using the vac truck in the apron . as he was pulling the hose around the tail wheel , the hose went into a pile snapping his wrist and thumb forward . he had a hold of the stick attached to the hose . ***this was not reportable until 05/30/07 when he had surgery . ***
employee was pushing a wheel barrow loaded with coal material at # 2 belt drive , when wheel barrow shifted he tried to correct it and strained his right knee . he underwent an mri on 9/28/06 . the preliminary results comunicated on 10/2/06 that he has torn meniscus to right knee and surgery necessary for repair .
hose on triple seven caught on fire because of pressure . ee did not follow safety and jumped off the truck .
ice fell from the service shaft while ee was working at the shaft bottom .
ee was removing the insulation on the termiantion end of an electrical cable using knife blad of a multi tool device . the knife blad slipped off the insulation & cut ee's left thumb . lt. thumb laceratin required 2 sutures . no restrictions .
unintentional roof fall 1 break inby spad # 13379 in # 5 entry . dimensions : 50 ' ( l ) x 20 ' ( w ) x 6 ' ( t ) . roof fall was found @ 3:15pm .
ee was shoveling material off of vs 2b screen and he pulled a muscle in his left shoulder .
employee was filling conveyor drive hydraulic reservior using a 5 gallon bucket . employee lifted the bucket and turned to his right and foot slipped on oil . the employee reported a sharp pain to his left knee .
injured was watching a co-worker operate a scoopwhen he was struck in the head by some unkown object .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at 53 blk on c-mains section in x-cut 6-7 and face of # 7. top is very soft unconsolidated `` slicken side '' rock . deminsions : length- 60 ' , width- 18 ' , height- 6-12 ' . support : 5'resin .
a roof fall was discovered in the primary escape way 3 crosscuts inby # 2 belt drive at spad # 1203. the fall was approx . 30 ' l. x 19 ' w.and had fallen above permanent roof support . the fall was discovered and reported to msha .
sitting on screen trailer catwalk pulling on comealong handle to lift impact feed conveyor tail pulley off ground
walden's employees were water blasting the chambers of a vertical kiln when the water and material reacted within the kiln building pressure enough to blow the hot material out onto the employee . employee had standard water blast ppe on .
ee was cutting angle iron and the blade broke off cutting right leg .
cleaning chute for hydrator # 1 , the employee was wearing a papr ( respirator hood ) . the employee believed employee was done cleaning and had opened the hood shield to clean fogged glasses , when material fell in the chute getting hydrated lime in eyes .
ee was putting belt guide on dolly pinching finger between dolly and guide .
cut ( l ) forearm on unknown object ( possibly zip tie end or weld ) while placing drill steel in rack .
rock fall occurred on 2 left off 1 south east mains # 3 entry brk # 32. measured approximately 20 ' wide x 30 ' long x 8 ' thick .
ee was running haul truck , the truck slammed up and down which causer her to sprain her back .
ee was descending off a belt transfer platform when he stepped on a rock rolling his ankle over.cause of this injury was safety awareness . compliance with rules/regs was not a factor , protecti ve equipment not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
employee was tightening bolts on base plant crussher . the wrench slipped causing strain to left thumb & hand . ***rigid splint .
ee was picking rock off belt line at the clean coal crusher , when he lost his footing and fell .
employee was struck in the face by sand hopper on # 13 mantrip when guard re-railer came loose . result was a fracture ( minor ) to his nose . medical treatment only , no work days lost .
employee was assisting in construction of retaining wall for earthen ramp . blocks are 2 ' tall x 2 ' wide and offset half a block each course . when stepping from one course to the next ee felt a pain in groin later diagnosed as a hernia . employee is restricted from lifting heavy weights and may need surgery . amendment : it was later diagnosed as a strain , not hernia .
ee was in the basement unhooking deck panels from the center well hoist that were being lowered down from the 3rd floor . ee was postioning one deck panel over another when he felt pain in his lower back . he begin missing work on 11/29/02 degree 3 class 9 .
he and two co-workers were moving a continuous miner along the main west entry . after tramming the miner to a crosscut , the three man crew were placing the miner cable along the rib out of the roadway . all three men lifted and carried the cable over to the ribline ; the two co-workers dropped the cable causing a jerk to the injured's shoulder resulting in pain .
employee and coworker was lifting handling an i beam when he strained/sprained his pelvis . employee went to a doctor in mt . carmel , illinois and was diagnosed with a hernia . employee had surgery on september 08 , 2011 , in which at that time became a reportable accident and will be off on workman ' s comp for an uncertain period of time .
while uncoupling two man busses that were blocked against motion , the operator of the man bus activated the automatic uncoupler , pinching 4 fingers on the individuals right hand .
ee was backing the loader out from the modified stone pile when the steering wheel spun around and jammed his lt. arm back causing injury and pain to his lt. shoulder .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal on the 5 west headgate crosscut 58 between # 2 and # 3 entry . the fall was approx 32 ' long , approx 12 ' wide , and approx 6 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of workers . the fall will not be cleaned up . fall # 27 n
injured employee normally works in scalehouse . he was asked to run a loader in plant ot help load rial cars . he did this for two hours and alleged his back was sore 7-14-00. he said he fell in his yard 7-14-00 , went to er dr 7-14. he was referred to antoher doctor on 7-25-00 .
ee was pulling timber out of chute with comealongs , with pressure on comealongs . timber popped out , comealongs flew back and mashed finger against belt hanger chain . reportable only due to sti tches .
while ee was performing ug welding repairs on a continuous miner at f-9 , a piece of roof fell cutting oxygen & acetylene hoses . gases gathered , apparently filling his welder's glove . a welding spark ignited gases blowing the glove off his hand and causing burn injuries .
mn xc # 8 belt line painting numbers on stoppings when his boot got stuck in the mud wrenching his back . it was on the 4 to 5xc side of the belt . he was trying to pull his boot out of the mud when he twisted his back .
ee was bent over swinging a sledge hammer busting a conrete floor . he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . he continued to work and finished working his shift . he experienced numbers in his left foot and pain in his left leg the morning of 10-14-04. he went to the dr whom told him to take two weeks off work .
while removing roller frame from hardbar pin , roller frame slid out and wedged the punch against his finger and roller frame .
ee was standing on top of roof bolter trailing cable to help unwind the cable as the machine trammed forward , cable pulled tight and caused ee to fall.ee hit his head on the bucket of a scoop car and lacerated his head . 2inches long and located above left eye , 6 staples to close cut .
the master control board on drive # 1 of the production hoist became damaged . the problem was trouble shooted and the control board was replaced . the production hoist is the second escape way out of the mine . after the master control board was replaced , the hoist became operational again .
the ee was moving lg stones from a pallet on to the conveyor . ee felt pain in his l wrist when pushing a rock . diagnosis : l wrist strain .
on 3/13/2014 a roof fall occurred at 45 break on the 1 right 1 west in the # 3 entry . this report is being filed due to citation 9112033. the roof fall was called in to the msha hotline on 12/5/2016 to abate the citation . the current operator was not the operator of the mine when the fall occurred . eastern associated coal company , llc was the operator at the time of the fall .
ee was returning boat to dredge . he was on deck chaining boat off when the high wall collapsed and caused the boat to pull away . the hook on the chain stabbed his finger .
ee was assisting drill operator change hammers on drill . tools used were the hydraulic operated pipe wrench and a j wrench . ee placed j wrench on the drill steel so that it would rest against the mast while the pipe wrench turned the hammerwhen hammer broke loose , the j wrench kicked back striking the ee in the ribs .
a piece of wood/dust from pallet flew into ee's eye . ee had eye protection on .
ee was helping unload steel from a delivery truck and strained shoulder .
while busting up concrete , a piece of rock or metal came up striking employee in the right jaw causing a laceration . employee was treated at raleigh general but was referred to another physician to remove foreign object . employee had foreign object removed on may 16 , 2014 .
miner was futting a piece of pipe with a torch and the pipe broke loose burining his arm . over the weekend the burn wound became infected resulting in fever and general malaise .
was pushing a bolt in hole with bolter wrench and when plate got against roof it turned a piece of drawrock loose and struck him on right side of face .
employee was roofbolting . as he prepared to put the second steel on , his intention was to raise the mast . his gloves were wet and his hand slipped off and bumped the clamp lever which closed on his middle finger and thumb . medical treatment injury
while working main entrance employee felt lightheaded and fainted . co-worker checked on him and found lying on ground . ee called operator employee for assistance and they called 911. paramedic ' s responded and transported ee to local hospital for observation .
riding to section in a mac 12 rubber tire mantrip . while making a turn toward section the mac 12 hit rib catching scsr storage box shoving it onto a fire extinguisher and the fire extinguisher hit employee's hand . the right hand palm was cut requiring 6 stitches
employee was cleaning out bottom holes and slipped on muck with rock drill oil . ee seen shiropractor on 8-27-02 .
two ee's were loading gt-60 drill steel from the ground onto a truck with a drill steel rack . the ground in the area was uneven and when they put it onto the truck , the drill steel dropped on ee's hand and smashed his knuckles . ee had pins inserted in that hand when he was 13 years old and stated the hand felt different , so we took him to the emergency room .
while prying off a bearing housing off of a pumpdrive on 114 drill the pry bar slipped & ee hit elbow on alternator bracket .
ee was changing teeth on trackhoe . he was hitting the tooth with a hammer to knock off when a piece of metal chipped off and went into right arm .
ee was installing a light fixture in the ceiling of the 01 portal conference room . as he was attempting to position fixture , he lacerated his thumb on the frame of the fixture . there was no da mage or impairment to the mining operation . the injury did not involve compliance , job skills , proficiency , training , attitude , or protective devices . ee was not wearing gloves . ( protective i
ie was replacing a roof bolter hyd fitting near the base of the atrs . ie completed the work , the control side operator approached , did not see the ie and thought maint work was completed . the operator started the machine and swung the boom in pinching ie between the boom and atrs . ie was treated at the local er for a broken clavicle and released .
while rigging up a drill rig , derrick was in horizontal position suspended approx 1 ' via the gantry rigging . a gussett supporting a wire rope saddle failed allowing the line to slip off . the derrick fell the 1 ' onto crib blocks . ee was maneuvering the crib block at the time , intending to expose the derrick area in order to paint it . his hand was caught btwn the cribbing & derrick .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal 4 north bleeders , entry # 4 6356 n , 823 w. the fall was approx . 35 ' long , approx . 18 ' wide and approx . 12-14 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will not be cleaned up . fall # 21e .
a roof fall occurred in the main west return . the fall was 50 ' long , 18 ' wide and 7 ' high . the fall was between xc 18 and 19 xc and not in the intersections .
while stepping down from a tailings dam manifold box , ee felt a sharp pain on the inside of his right knee .
ee was assisting with realigning the bearings on the slope belt with a come-a-long , when ee felt a strain in ee's lower back and abdomen .
while lifting and moving cable and water line against the rib and out of the travelway pulled a lower right back muscle . he finished his shift but sought medical attention the following day and was placed on a weight and bending restriction .
ee was cleaning dust out of the # 2 dust chamber when dust got under his glasses and into his eyes .
employee reported when moving a rock knocker that had fallen off a haul truck , ee felt a pop and pain in ee's left arm . surgery performed 3/19 for a left elbow distal tendon rupture repair .
ee was assigned ( with others ) of replacing a limestone weigh belt ; this is an endless belt approimately 4 ' wide x 18 ' long . much of the replacement of this belt must be done by hand and is hea vy and close fitting . during the process of replacing the belt the ee felt pain in his left shoulder .
reaching into steel pipe under railcar to obtain sample , employee cut right index finger on sharp edge where 2 pipes come together at a y. received 5 stitches .
ee was setting timbers around the new power center area , when the corner rib rolled off striking him on the left ankle .
ee was bolting top when a piece of sand stone fell and hit him in the lower back . the rock was 1 ' thick by 2 ' long by 1 ' wide .
the ee was injured when he tried to put the rub rail back on the miner . the ee stated that he felt his knee `` pop '' .
a power surge halted the hoist approx . 100 ' fromthe collar . a blown blower motor fuse & primary t205 fuse was found . eleven miners were trapped in cage approx . 2 hours while trouble-shooting . hoist back in operation at 2:50 p.m .
an unintentional roof fall was dicovered on grassy creek mains at crosscut # 18 in the # 8 entry . survey station # 10354. the fall measured approx 20 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' high . the fall has been dangered off and additional supports implemented on all sides . no one was injured , ventilation was not interrupted and no equipment was caught . this fall will not be cleaned up .
yellow wire holding bacon strap on atrs pad broke causing bacon strap to hit fore head above right eye . cutting fore head . ppe was not a factor , compliance rules/regs not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
a citation was written for a failed ground support , citation # 6270509. the findings of the internal investigation showed that there was a drilling and shooting problem , not a failure of the gr ound support . this should be verified by the msha technical support group as they were called to offer an evaluation of the underhanded mining method and the paste being used .
ee and co worker were moving manlift in its tilted back transport arrangement . the support brace and locking pin were difficult to engage and check for proper positioning . the brace collapsed and the manlift fell , striking one ee , lacerating his scalp . seven sutures were needed .
ee was rolling up 4 '' water hose and he heard something pop in his right shoulder . he was exp . alot of pain and did not have much movement in shoulder .
ee was standing next to an exterior metal storage cabinet when a very strong gust of wind blew the door open . the edge of the door struck ee on the right anterior portion of his cranium , resulting in a laceration .
fall was in the track entry # 3 on # 2 section - nearest spad no . 21045. fall was 20'l x 20'w x 54 '' thick approx . 4,000 ' from the face . a clean-up plan is posted and fall was reported to both state & federal emergency hotlines . no injuries occurred . no one was trapped .
employee operates a loader . his left shoulder has been bothering him for sometime . he went to the doctor and he advised that it was work related & involved repetive motion .
ee was in the process of removing a sprocket with another mechanic . ee stepped back to observe the sprocket while the other ee struck it with a 8 lb sledgehammer . a piece of metal came off and struck ee in his right forearm . first aid was given and ee was transported to er . dr. referred ee to a surgeon .
ee got left ring finger caught in a door that closed on her , she ended up with a couple of stitches
ee was driving client's vehicle he was 3 miles away from assigned post . he said engine stopped and he lost brakes and power steering , vehicle went into a 7 ft. ditch . no injuries reported . when supervisor got to site , engine was still running .
ee was attempting to clear a frozen clog from hopper gate with a pry bar . clog came free , forced the bar down pinning his hand between bar , belt and hopper gate .
ee was carrying conduit and slipped on loose gravel , causing him to fall and injure his right leg .
injured was carrying crib block to mid face on the long wall face . as he was walking he started to drop the crib and grab to stop them from falling , got his little finger caught between crib and mine floor . ppe was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency may be a factor .
ee was moving steel pipe from outside into shop . the steel was smaller pieces and ee was picking them up from the ground and carried them by hand into the shop . he strained his back from lifti ng and carrying them .
employee was working on dropping a rear end out of mantrip . he reached out to push it out of the way and caught his left forearm on cut off brake line .
ee was removing a set of belt scales off the belt line # 3 belt bk-26 he struck the scales with a 4lb hammer and they fell down hitting his ring finger on left hand causing an avulsion which required surgery and placed off work until the wound heals . he was wearing gloves at time of incident .
ee was walking down launch on highwall miner , slipped on ice and fell to ground approximately 4 1/2 feet hitting left knee , then was transported to hospital .
a valve was stopped up making it hard to open and close . ee got hold of handle & rocked it back & forth . when it moved , ee's finger was caught between valve handle & bolt sticking up on anothe r valve .
while performing his normal duties as a scoop operator , ee experienced pain in rt.knee . ee has not missed any work however was placed on restricted duty starting 03/16/04 . therefore making this a medical report at this time .
employee stated that he was stepping into his motor and his fooot slipped off the step . the employee landed on his right foot causing pain in his foot and knee . employee is a weekend worker and did not report off until 11-18-05 .
ee was thrown forward striking his head , someoneactivated the air doors causing the mantrip to wedge between the air doors .
this report is being filed under protest and solely to abate citation 9002338. according to msha , an employee ( ssn 9256 ) has incurred a reportable illness of occupational pneumoconiosis disease . brody denies that it breached and duty to report an occupational illness and reserves the right to contest the issuance of the citation and to amend and/or retract this report .
a roof fall occurred in the 8o to 8p recovery entries . the fall was in the number 3 headiing between the number 2 and number 3 crosscuts . this fall will be breakered off and does not effect the ventilation in that area .
the ee was barring down some loose rock on a rib underground . he was working on a rock 4 ft. high when another rock fell onto his bar , knocking the bar out of his hands and onto his right foo t. his foot was bruised only , but was too painful to walk on for a couple of days .
ee pulled a muscle in his right arm while installing a screen panel on the digester scalping screen . this incident is being reported within 10 days of the employee seeking medical attention .
employee was clearing hopper in quarry with loader , when employee got off the loader to see inside of hopper a steele plate fell off and hit ankle/foot area .
operating a pit truck going to dump in hopper from muck pile , a 150-200 # boulder fell off load when making turn to setup backing to hopper . boulder was in travel portion of haul road . after dumping went to move boulder out of way manually , turned over twice and 3rd time his arm went pop , pop . thought pulled muscle , mri reveals tear in right bicep . didn't report til shift end ( 6pm ) .
employees were assembling a dredge ladder on site . while bolting the two sections together ee reached down for additional bolts placing ee's left thumb between the flanges . while the crane was holding one section the wind shift the load enough to smash ee's thumb , resulting in a laceration and fracture .
employee was attempting to close the door on the bottom of the kiln feed shelf of the preheat tower . employee pinched his rt . thumb between the door and the door frame causing thumb to bruise under nail . employee was sent for examination where his rt . thumb nail was drilled to release pressure .
welding broken frame on 1035 truck . ee wore safety glasses with side shield , instead of goggles .
employee was examining 3 belt around 48 wall when employee took a step and strained employee's left knee . the walkway in the area was level and had no obstructions . employee was diagnosed with a torn acl and began missing work on 5/5/17 to have employee's knee surgically repaired .
ee was removing shim bracket on a drum finisher and was using hoisting sling around the drive unit with overhead crane . the sling slipped from the shaft collar and slid causing the drum to drop about 3 inches . when the drum slipped the ee index finger was pinched .
ee was removing a shear pin on a drag chain . he was using a punch to drive out the pin , missed the punch and hit his thumb . he was taken to the e.r . and diagnosed with a thumb tip fracture ; pl aced on modified duty .
emplyee's foot sticking out of mantrip . pinched left foot between rib and mantrip . zone 21-block breaking 3 toes .
employee stated ee was operating the tail motor hauling supplies to the section . the lead motor was pulling the supply cars up an incline , the lead motor stalled and rolled back striking the tail motor . employee stated ee struck shoulder inside the operators compartment causing pain to shoulder . note : employee did not notify management until the 9/8/2017
an alledged ignition occurred on the 6 north mains section , 088 mmu , 0 entry approximately 115 feet . employee stated he saw an orange flame 1 to 1 1/2 feet from left cob , about 12 '' in diameter , lasting 1 to 2 seconds . self-extinguishing . no injuries or damage .
ee was backing up loader when 80 ' x 54 ' x 4 ' section of highwall toppled ontl loader . he was entrapped for about 1-1/2 hours . he was extricated & transported to hospital for evaluation .
during a weekly aircourse exam a fall was found 20 ' outby station # 1860 in # 2 entry of north mains . the fall is about 40 ' long , 18'-20 ' wide and 6'-7 ' high . the area was bolted with 60 '' instal l roof bolts with 6 '' x 16 '' plates & skins . cable bolts were observed in the surrounding areas . ventilation was not interrupted . no men or equipment were involved .
this accident did not become lost time until 10/03/2011 ! ! the employee was cleaning the shop ( sweeping ) when he bent over to pick up a metal shaft and felt a pain in his back . the employee continued to work his regular shifts and job task until he called in on the morning of 10/03/11 and said an mri showed a blown disc .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in # 130 mine in the # 6 and # 7 entry near spad # 5814 and 5813. the fall measured 100 ' in length , 19 ' in width and 8 ' in height .
hood on a d8t cat dozer stuck open and ee moved it causing the hood to slam shut . it caught his middle and ring finger between the frame and the hood .
ee was using a knife to strip cable for installation when the knife slipped , cutting the left thumb . stitches were required to close the laceration . released to full duty .
the employee was dismounting bolter . he stepped out onto the wing & it opened crushing his rightankle against the rib . he was transported to theemergency room for evaluation & treated for an acute crush injury to the right ankle & placed on restricted duty .
ee complained of back ( lower ) pain after boarding his haul truck . ee finished this shift and returned for his following shift on 7/29/06 . he completed the 7/29/06 shift . he did not miss work until 7/31/06 monday .
injured was building a brattice with mandoor in it . the employee was on their knees cutting a solid block that would be used to tie in the outby end of the stopping to the mine roof when the wall fell . some of the block fell on the employee smashing right 5th finger ( little finger ) causing lacerations and fractures .
on 3/14/2011 , ee reported to his supervisor that his back was hurting . he had been pulling on a knotted continuous miner cable and strained his back . he continued to work and later went to a chiropractor who referred him to an orthopedic surgeon . an mri revealed injured discs . he started missing work on 3/31/2011 , and will off at least 2 weeks depending on treatment .
ee was pulling the dredge with the tail-line & rope got hung on dredge . at which time it caused the dredge to come to a complete stop , & in turn caused the ee to suddenly grasp the side of dre dge to keep from falling off .
the miner was holding open a steel ventilation door with his hand and foot to allow the airblast from the shot to pass through the opening . when the shot went off , the door was pulled from the miner's hand and struck him in the left lower leg and rib area .
getting off a mantrip and pant leg got caught on the ride causing ee to fall . ee torn ee's left bicep when ee grabbed the mantrip to keep ee from falling .
a roof fall occurred in the # 4 entry 1 break outby spad no . 1874. the fall measured app . 20'l x 20'w x 7'h .
a roof fall in the east mains in # 8 entry # 9 x-cut measuring approx 60 ' by 20 ' by 6-9 ' . the areahad been supprted with 6 ' tension roof bolts and 9 ' mega bolts and timbers . there was undetected slip in the mine roof .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 4 entry @ crosscut # 360 on the mmu 001/002 section at spad # 3684. the fall was approximately 9 ' high & 45 ' x 30 ' in the intersection . the area was supported with 5 ' resin bolts and 10 ' cable bolts . the material that fell was shale and absent of any sandstone .
ee was bolting top in 6 face in high top and blacked out twice - falling from walk thru bolter approx 6 ' landing on head & right side - cut on top of head - bruised & stoved rt shoulder , elbow , rt thumb and bruises on rt shoulder & back .
ee was working in waterhole where mix had been spilled . he got his feet and ankles and lower legs wet causing burns .
ee splicing conveyor belt when knife slipped and lacerated left forearm .
employee was heating up bolts with an acetaline torch . employee had the torch in their left hand and crossed their right arm over the flame burning their right forearm from elbow to wrist .
a roof fall occurred on the no . 1 section in the no . 1 heading . the fall measured 20 ' wide , 20 ' long & 6.5 ' thick . the fall has been breakered off and mining is no longer being done in this area .
the employee was working on the ground near a loader . the loader operator did not see him and as the loader moved , his right knee was struck by the loader bucket and twisted against the rib . the employee was seen by a physician sept 5 for a knee strain and given a full duty release . on oct 13 he had an mri that revealed a torn meniscus and he had arthoscopic repair on nov 3 .
lowering red devil rope comealong lever slipped and caught thumb between lever and latching mechanism
ee was changing a boom jack on a fletcher bolt machine when he lost his grip on the jack . jack fell on finger catching it between jack and frame of bolt machine , injury caused laceration on left hand ring finger , ( 8 ) eight stitches were required to close laceration .
ee reported that over the course of a day and half of running the loader from the lower quarry to the north dirt pile he began to feel pain .
employee was stuck on livingston elevator at 1:00 am the elevator contractor was called and the employee was able to exit the elevator at 1:50 am . no persons were injured or equipment was damaged as a result of this entrapment .
ee's shoulder became sore throughout the day while changing a balling feed screen on 4/21/08 . this was initially a no treatment case , but the ee began receiving physical therapy on 6/12/08 . *per dr's notes , this is an on-going problem for employee . mri indicate arthritic changes of the joint . symptoms & pain were evident 7-8 months prior & not related to activites of 4/21/08 . *
employee was sealing leaks in # 3 finish mill dust collector screws . the collector screw caught his glove and the screw cut his left in- dex finger . the laceration required stitches .
operator opened sample port on crystallizer tank . steam was discharged from the sample port burning the operator on his right hand and forearm . the operator was wearing gloves and appropriate ppe .
riding in a battery powered mantrip , at a belt drive boom hole , the mantrip driver decided to turn the mantrip around , the victim did not keep his head down in the low seam height and he hit his head on the mine roof .
a roof fall was found by the fireboss during his weekly exams . the fall is 60 ' by 20'by 4 ' high . the area was bolted with 42 '' resin bolts . the mine is idle .
while employee was descending the right side of the front-end loader he fell to the ground resulting in a left knee injury ( inflammation ) . doctor immobilized the left knee ( knee brace ) and issued work restrictions . employee returned to work and was accomodated for his work restrictions . employee will be re-examined on september 6 at 9:00 am .
ee is a long time loader operator . he reported on 6-14-04 that over the last nine month his left hand has become numb and tingling . he has been since diagnosed with carpal tunnel of left wrist . surgery is scheduled for 8-16-04. he has had no lost time up to that date . this report prepared when notification of surgery was confirmed .
ee was tasked with loading operations with another employee . ee attempting to traverse into a shallow excavation . the excavator teetered forward onto the floor the pit causing a jarring of the excavator . during the jarring ee braced left hand on the door frame with fingers outside of the cab . the jarring subsequently unlatched the cab door striking the exposed fingers .
ee was helping maintenance work on c-34 conveyor belting when his left hand was pulled in to pulling block between 3/8 '' cable and sheave . the cable tightened causing his left hand and fingers to be pulled in to block , lacerating and breaking his middle finger and parital amputation to his pointer finger . ( first joint )
ee was replacing starter in haul truck . thought he had bolt started when starter fell and smashed his finger .
working from a platform while installing concrete forms , employee slipped while picking up ee's pliers causing ee to hit ee's forehead on installed rebar . employee received 13 sutures to ee's forehead and returned to work . employee was using fall protection at time of injury .
ee was welding on plant equipment , material entered ee's eye . ee did not feel that treatment was needed until several days later . ee reported to supervisor and then taken for treatment and the metal was removed from his right eye .
the ee was removing the sand trough . the sand trough was being supported with a chain attached to angle iron on the trough and held by a trackhoe . the weld on the angle iron broke . this caused the sand trough to fall and strike ee's left big toe .
ee was welding some screws of a transmission in the conveyor of the plant # 2 and when he was going to get up , he could not get up , feeling strong pain in the waist and the upper body .
ee was stepping across an empty pallet , when a board broke and his foot fell through the pallet , twisting his right knee .
ee was walking out of plant when he tripped and struck door with his left shoulder . ee wanted to wait a few days to see if the pain would go away but it didn't , ee was taking to seek treatment on 3-26-12. ee has been on light duty since 7/11 . ee has had an mri done on his left shoulder and seeing another doctor about his rotator cuff .
ee was ascending ladder . as he reached up to grab the next rung with his right hand to pull himself up , he felt pain in the area of his right shoulder . persistent pain , so ee was taken 1/5/05 for medical eval . where he was diagnosed with a strain in his shoulder/rotator cuff . the ee was placed on restrictive duty & provided medication . awaiting results of mri .
employee and phelps dodge employee went to the scrap iron pile to retrieve some nose cone caps that were discarded by phelps dodge . half of the pin that had been cut into and the cap were foun d. they drug it over to the pick-up to load it in the truck . the pin and caps were picked up by hand at the rear of the truck . while stepping back , ee slipped & they were dropped on right leg
drill steel was hung up in hole , pulling on machine came out quick and smashed `` r '' ring finger between rib and jack leg which cut tip of `` r '' ring finger .
ee was using a battery powered drill and it caught and twisted his arm causing discomfort in his elbow .
plant operator , was using a 6 ' spud bar to clean off caked material on top of the r107 reactor . while poking with the bar he noticed a pain in his lower right back . he continued working throu ghout the weekend and by 8/25/03 the back pain got bad enough for him to seek chiropractic help . this was reported to the company on 8-27-03 and verified to this activity .
unintentional roof fall 2nd east panel # 5 entry , 51 & 52 xcut between intersection , traveling outby tail . 22 ' x 18 ' x 7 ' . bolted 6 ' tr bolts .
employee was attemting to remove ramps from trailer when hinge rod slipped striking his right hand .
a slick side rock fell from the mine roof , measuring 6 ' long x 2 ' wide , tapering on all sides , with the thickest part measuring approx . 6 ' thick , hit ee on left shoulder and injuring him down to his belt line .
ee was positioning an extension ladder when it came off balance and started to fall . she tried to catch it and strained her back as it fell .
employee was attempting to remove a blown hydraulic hose . he was removing a staple using two longwall hammers . the pick end of one hammer was inserted under the staple and the other was used to drive the pick and lift the staple . while hammering , the employee struck his left thumb causing a laceration . seven stitches were required to close laceration .
ee was going to thread a piece of pipe . holding the pipe in place , he started the pipe threader . his fingers were at one end of the pipe and the clamp on the pipe threader caught his left middle finger , clamping it to the pipe while twisting both the pipe and his fingers . he was taken to a local er where he received stitches for a laceration of his left middle finger . returned ld .
a roof fall has occurred in the 2nd right panel off the 3rd southeast submain at xc 7 entry # 00. the fall measured approximately 20 feet in length x 20 feet wide x approximately 8 feet thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
an unintentional fallof roof caught the continuous miner while retreat mining was being conducted . the location of the fall was on 001 section # 38 break , app . 2 breaks inby spad # 7147 .
ee was descending down an exterior office stairway that was under maintenance , when a board/stair tread shifted causing him to fall forward and down the stairs resulting in damaged/torn tendons in his knees .
striking a pin with a 20 lb . hammer . pin diverted hitting finger between pin and hammer handle .
employee felt a pain in his right arm while throwing a track switch on oak springs bottom . he was later diagnosed with a torn bicep . ( lta 6/16/14 )
while lifting a valve into place , ee bent over to grab the valve and strained his lower back . hestarted physical therapy 5/22/01 .
unloding a face drill out of bed of a hummer by hand , ee pulled on drill , lost his balance and the drill struck his right foot .
he was exiting a truck when he slipped on the running board and fell to the ground causing a meniscus tear to the right knee . he continued to work at his regular duties until 5/13/09 when he was removed for arthroscopic meniscus repair of the right knee .
employee complaints of pain and numbness to both shoulders and hands from opening and closing tight valves . coninuous trauma illness to l & r shoulder resulting in rotator cuff terars-surgical repairs .
the employee was operating a loader when the left front tire blew out . the employee was jerked forward into the seatbelt . he went to the doctor , was given medication , and returned on his next scheduled shift . **on october 14 , 2013 the employee was reassessed and assigned modified duty due to issues with his leg . he is expected to be out 2 weeks .
roof fall occurred on the # 9 converyor belt . the roof fall was found at approx 10:00 am . the roof fall is located 2 cross cuts outby the # 9 belt head drive . roof fall is in the # 4 entry approx 65 ' inby survey station 4135. the roof fall is approx 60 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8'-12 ' thick . this fall is outby the active section . roof fall reported to msha on 2/21/09 @ 10:25 am .
while scaling roof rock down , ee accidently stuck himself in the ( r ) thigh with pinted end of rock bar . no lost time , medical only , 4 stitches .
ee states he sat in a chair in the mine lunchroom that he didn't realize was broken and fell over backwards hurting his back .
riding mantrip & crib fell over on mantrip .
at approximately 7:10 am two employees determined an inundation occurred & one of them immediately called msha . inundation consisted of south platte river spilling into pond . no equipment or personnel affected .
employee was using a weed eater to cut down weeds when he lost his footing and as he almost fell , he reached out for a jersy barrier to catch his fall . as a result he injured his left shoulder . ee continued working until he went in for surgery on 9/15/2011 .
injured ee unbuckled the discharge line on a pit pump . as ee released the qd coupling water struck ee in the face causing ee to jump backwards and trip and slide down the embankment to the sump . ee struck several rocks as ee traveled down the slope and this caused injury to face and shoulder . ee walked up the ramp to where a coworker was on the forklift moving material .
employee's right wrist has been hurting for the last month so he went to the doctor . tendonitus of the right wrist . restricted duty .
ee was performing maintenance on # 84 shield support hydraulic hoses . as he re-positioned the tilt jack , he experienced pain down in his groin & testicle area , resulted in a hernia .
employee was racking out motor switch gear for fan # 71fa07 at mcc j. he checked with the control room and asked if it was okay to lock it out , but failed to check the guages to verify the switch gear was not under power . the employee disengaged a 4160 volt switch under load causing an arc flash and destroying the breaker . the employee was not injured .
on 07/26/2016 , the employee stated ee was removing the wheel/hub from 410 roof bolter . later in the shift employee stated ee was feeling pain in ee's upper stomach . this incident didn't become reportable until the employee sought medical attention and was placed on restricted duty on 10/10/2016 . this incident is being reported at a restricted duty .
ee was roof bolting when a piece of rock fell and struck him on the neck causing a laceration .
ee was checking back tire on scoop . operator , never knew he was there . scoop rolled back pinching back of rt foot . this ee started missing work 4/20/07 .
unintentional roof fall occurred in # 8 entry , just outby spad 132 in intake entry . no persons or equipment involved , fall did not affect passage of people . fall will not be cleaned up , and will be breakered off . fall area approx . 2900 ' from section . fall is 20 ' wide , 90 ' long and 0-4 ' in thickness .
ee was hosing off windshield of drilling machine . a particle of steele that must have come from either the drill bit or steele casing blew into his eye causing irritation .
ee adn 2 coworkers were in the process of hand scaling a development round , prior to loading for blasting . ee and 1 coworker were getting into the basket of the powder tractor , so the other co worker could raise them up to reach the hanging . while getting into the baskiet a chunk fell from the face of the round , bounced off the face at a lower leve and struck ee in the lower back .
employee was helping crane men unlock strongback on floor when he noticed a anode was not properly in the saddle and decided to get on rack to fix anode and doing so he fell off rack .
ee was installing last roof bolt in # 7 entry . after inserting glue into hole , ee proceeded to put bolt in hole . while pushing bolt into hole , he experienced pain in his shoulder . x-rays were taken and diagnosed with a strain .
ee was walking in the # 3 entry of the 003 mmu and struck his head on a cable bolt that had been installed in the mine roof , requiring stitches .
on 11/11/04 ee was working on pump at the # 5 brattice & stepped in a hole & twisted his right knee . he worked his regular job until 2/3/05 when he had arthroscopic knee surgery & began losing time .
on 10/2/2012 ee came into work using crutches and stated that he had injured his back on 09/18/12 while operating a loader . on 9/18/12 , he left work around 3:00am without notifying anyone of his injury . he called-in sick on 09/19/12 . he came back and worked the following days ; 9/20 , 9/23 , 9/25 , 9/26 , 9/27 and 9/28 . he then called in 9/30/12 and 10/1/12 .
ee was loosening structure bolts on belt structure and turned to get another piece of structure when he twisted his back .
ee was standing on the tracks of a bulldozer and slipped . he fell to the ground from the tracks .
ee was attempting to place a motor shieve in place for storage . the shieve rolled and smashed his finger between the shieve and tire rack . the finger required stitches .
ee complained of sore back while running scraper on shift . he was taken to town and he went to see a chiropractor , thus entailing msha reportability .
employee was attempting to exit pulverizer room at lab when the door handle jammed . he states the room became very hot so he used a pulverizer metal/steel cup to break the door window and sust ained multiple lacerations and cuts to his right hand .
allegedly while pushing a wheebarrow down a plank , wheelbarrow got caught -- stoping suddenly with ee falling over theleft sideof wheelbarrow .
equipment operator was lifting a 5 gallon bucket of anti-freeze onto the back of a komatsu loader when he pulled a muscle in his abdomen .
a roof fall 50 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' in the 2 main north parellel # 1 entry , # 7 x-cut . this area mined in feb. 2001 & supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts . fall caused by an undetected slip .
ee was working on the back of the operator's cab of a 785 rock truck . he lost his footing and fell about 12 feet to the ground , landing on his feet .
ee was performing maintenance check . after determining , he needed additional transmission fluid , he laid dipstick on catwalk and began back and down steps of loader in fluid when he missed a f step , fell backwards stumbled and head whipped backwards hitting tire of loader parked bruide the one laceration to back of head requiring stitures .
ee was pulling the breasting wire on the center of te-5261 ( river barge ) and felt a pull/discomfort in forearm . he returned to normal duty that day , but the injury has progressed and doctor now decided he need carpal tunnel surgery ( 6-12-14 . )
ee was driving t-post for fence . while driving t-post he lifted t-post driver too high causing him to miss the t-post on the way down and caught his finger between t-post driver and t-post . has to have stitches in left index finger .
ee was engaged in scooping up a pile of loose rock to load into dump truck when the bucket of front end loader struck a solid rock ledge jerking ee forward inside of cab . ee was wearing seat b elt restraint at the time of incident . believed possibly that the impact from hitting the solid rock ledge may have caused the injury . ee was unaware of the existing conditions at the time of
ee exited his dozer , walking up tilt jack to top of blade to talk with another dozer operator . when returning to his dozer the same way , he fell off of blade and tilt jack head first , between blade and hoist jack , hitting his ribs .
while walking to the face of longwall , employee fell hitting right knee causing laceration that required stitches .
ee was climbing down into dredge engine compartment when he twisted right knee . ee did not seek medical care until 2-14-05 .
ee has informed us that he has been diagnosed with pneumoconiosis . cwp .
employee states he was pushing a ramcar up a hill with the ramcar he was operating . he pushed it up the hill his car climbed up on the car being pushed . when the car being pushed caught traction it pulled out from under the car doing the pushing and it dropped to the floor . the employees hard hat come off and he struck his head against the canopy resulting in a laceration .
he was moving some h beams with loader operator , he was hooking up chain and put his arm between 2 beams . the beams shifted falling on arm causing a deep brusie to forearm .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in the # 1 entry on 2 left off 2 north mains 1 brk inby spad # 2646. size 60 ' long x 4 ' high x 18-20 ' wide . was supported with 4 ' fully-grouted resin bolts . no injuries , no equipment caught , ventilation was not interrupted . fall will not be cleaned up .
a 2-yard lhd bucket was slung under the chippy hoist skip being hoisted up the jewell shaft . a guide shoe came loose causing the bucket to rotate into and tearing out 2 shaft guides causing the bucket to lodge into the timber . 4 shaft crew members riding inside the skip were uninjured but briefly stranded before being transfered to the adjacent double drum hoist skip .
ee was making repairs/troubleshooting inside an electrical box when he contacted an energized component .
an unintentional fall occurred in the # 8 main north entry at the 19+40 ' , # 27 crosscut due to deterioration of the roof above the bolt anchorage . the area was bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts . intersection will be timbered off .
ee lifted a 20 ' pvc pipe with a steel 90 degree elbow and sprained his right shoulder .
the employee was pulling a loose rib with a slate bar . as the rib fell , more rib fell than he had anticipated , hitting the slate bar causing the employee to twist his lower back . the employee was reffered to a specialist that ordered a cat scan . the specialist on tuesday 1/6/09 , after getting the cat scan results , released the employee to return to work on 1/12/09 .
ee was pulling electrical cable for motore at # 1 belt . he stepped down one step to make another pull and stepped on a piece of rolled steel , causing him to turn his ankle .
ee was operating crane . the form was in the concrete in the collar . he was trying to move the form to the bottom . the form was tight in the concrete & would move about 12 '' to 18 '' & the crane w ould take the weight of the load . the audible & visual alarms would go off . this happened several times before the form moved out of the concrete collar . crane had a full load & turned over .
main breaker in sub-station tripped . when they first tried to reset breaker , it wouldn't stay in . hoist went down at 9am . msha was notified at 9:30am . hoist was down and came back up at 3:30pm
ee was driving a lube truck and struck a pot hole , causing her to bounce and hit her ribs on the side of the truck .
after cutting off some old rusty bolts off of a valve and using a hammer to knock them out of the flange , ee received a piece of steel in his left hand . he had the steel removed from his hand on tuesday the 3rd and started missing time on november 4th .
the jaw crusher became plugged , 2 ee's were working to unplug it . injured ee was using a bar to dislodge rocks . he lost his grip on the bar and it struck him on the right cheek . he applied an ice pack to the wound and initially thought he would return to work . after a short time , he decided he should go see the doctor . the doctor found he had broken bones in his cheek & jaw .
ee went to climb up side of dump truck when slipped and hit right knee .
injured was loading bolt supplies and felt pain in his back . he continued working and received medical attention and returned to work on his next scheduled shift . he worked until 08/22/2013 and went off under dr care .
employee had shoulder pain after grabbing a hand rail when he lost his balance while standing on a loader battery box . after a mri was done , it was determined that damage was done around the shoulder rotary cuff . employee was put on restricted work on april 8 , 2009 .
ee was attempting to cut a piece of neoprene rubber off so that it would fit into place on a screen deck and the utility knife he was using struck him in the rt . thigh area . the result from th is accident was 5 stitches to his rt . thigh .
ee was cleaning the return rollers on the jaw under conveyor with a hammer
the canica crusher plugged up & employee climbed on top of the crusher to find the problem . he slipped on the material striking his knee againist the crusher lid . this resulted in a small laceration requiring no stitches , but he was on modified duty for two days .
ee was injured when motor ee was operating along with another motor and 2 loaded flatcars became runways and collided with multiple manbus parked and being operated along track .
employee was grinding , cutting & welding when something got in his left eye . ee was taken to the e.r. & metal was removed that was embedded in ee's left eye . ee was wearing safety glasses .
ee was reaching for screen wire when his self-rescuer hit the roof bolter joy stick , causing the rotation of the drill steel , hitting ee s left hand .
employee was bolting when one of his drill steels slipped off the tray and when he grabed for the steel his finger was pinched between the bolter boom and the drill steel .
1/2 '' washer being used on a 3/8 '' bolt securing a 18 '' elevator conveyor belt ( 140 ' long ) with a c-clamp . laceration on head & brusing on leg .
early into 2nd shift the hoist ( koepe ) tripped out due to low air in the compressor . this shut the hoist down creating an evacuation due to not having two escapeways to surface . the mine was evacuated with no injuries or other problems . the issue was corrected and the hoist was put back into service at 6:20 am on 4/17/2012 .
ee was roof bolting in the face of # 3 entry . he was drilling a hole for the roof bolt closest to the rib in order to install a six foot bolt . he had just inserted his second drill steel in the drill pot . as he started his rotation a rock measuring 22 '' x7 '' x2 '' thick fell from the mine roof ( a height of 91 '' ) and struck his left forearm requiring 8 stitches to repair .
the continuous miner jm4660 was cutting in # 2 entry , 1st south main at 33+70 and hit a bore hole in the center of the entry . this bore hole was not shown on the mine map . no methane was presen t. no water or oil coming in at this time .
employee was kneeling beside the operator side controls of the # 5 fletcher bolter . as he tightened the 6 1/2 foot combination bolt , a piece of roof rock ( 1/2 size cse scsr ) fell between canopy and bolter boom striking his left gloved hand injurying his index finger . his hand was resting on his thigh it was hit .
employee was caught in an elevator for 55 minutes . no injury occurred . msha was notified immediately .
ee was on top of hood to the right of the cab , making his way to the battery box . as he steppeddown to the lower level his foot slipped . he lost his footing & landed on his back & wrist .
employee was performing his normal work duties when he experienced pain in his lower back . he was transported to williamson memorial hospital and diagnosed with muscle strain . this was contrib uted to repeated trauma .
two belt rollers came out of the belt line and got jammed in the belt . belt was locked out . ee pulled out one of the rollers causing the other to fall . it struck his left hand , fracturing his fifth finger .
ee reported that while cleaning shaft station-he hung cable slings back ont he wall and felt pain in his right shoulder 7 weeks later 7-31-02 unknowing to red path ee went to see dr and 3 sess ions of therapy . redpath had no knowledge of theses medical visits until receiving work comp forms from washington state . validty of clam is suspect and under review by washing state and redp
loose rock fell from roof between bolt and rib . he was taken to hospital by amulance and then released to go home after being checked out .
ee smashed finger while restacking drums . was reported as first aid only . ee went to dr for unrealated issue on 8-15-03. dr decided to drain pressure and x ray the finger . finger was not broke n .
roof fall discovered 10 belt 77 block , 6 ' high , 25 ' wide and 60 ' long ( approximate ) . fell on top of old , unused , overcast , knocking it down on top of belt . re-supported with 8 and 12 ' bolts , screen and floor to roof supports . fall occurred due to obscured deterioration of slicken sided clay material . no problems with training , ppe , mining methods or compliance issues .
a face ignition occurred on the e-2 longwall at 12:10pm . the power was de-energized and all government agencies were notified .
while bolting # 9 cross cut a piece of rock fell out between the rib and first installed bolt and struck ee in the neck . ee finished shift and sought treatment on 9/21/15 . he was placed off work and became reportable at this time .
team member reported to supervisor on march 6 , 2014 that he had been exposed to poison oak while repairing a damamged pipe . team member was sent to doctor on march 6 , 2014. he was diagnosed and treated for poison oak dermatitis . team member was released to work on march 7 , 2014 .
ee has been working for company since 4/2/74 . he has spent the majority of this time as a driller-powderman ( since 6/20/78 ) 23+ yrs . he was running an air-track for much of time , which exposed him to high noise levels . the air-track is no longer utilized .
ee was changing a liner when the chisel he was using slipped . he jerked back and struck his head on an object behind him .
ee was rock bolting when a fist size rock came out of the back through the wire ( 4 '' x 4 '' ) and struck the ee in the mouth .
ee was stepping thru a 30 in . x 30 in . mandoor leading to the belt entry . his foot caught on the door frame causing him to fall .
he was hammering the chute and accidently smashed his finger .
ee was using a belt knife while splicing a charger cable and cut his left index finger .
ee was turning off the water to the vacuum pumps on the 2nd floor of the prep plant . as he turned to walk away , he slipped on oil/mud & water that had accumulated on the floor . the ee twisted his rt . knee & ankle . he also hit his head on the storage tank on the down stream wall .
ee went to see to co. dr. on 7-12-01 and was placed on restricted duty . ee was cutting a live rubber belt inside the wet side main feed chute with a razor utility knife cutting towards him , in limited space , and cut his rt . knee .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at this operation at 13:45 at x-cut # 7 between # 4 and # 5 entries at the mouth of the headgate # 2 unit .
ee was removing metal band-straps from a pallet of 50-ton heintzman jacks . as he cut the last metal band-strap , one of the jacks sprung out and landed on his right foot . ee sustained deep contusion .
very windy - employee was walking into the shop when a foreign object blew into his eye , scratching his cornea thus having to go to the hospital and have the particle removed and a prescriptio n eye drop given .
upon completion of their shift , ee complained of pain and discomfort in his right eye . the ee washed his eye and experienced some relief . however , when the ee went home , the pain increased t o the point where he sought medical attention . although a foreign body was not found , there was evidence of rust that had to be removed . ee could not pinpoint specific activity .
employee was assisting with the assembly of the upper frame of a pegson cone crusher . a driving maul tool and 20 pound sledge were being used to help drive the concave wedges in place as a metal chip struck the employee in the left hand . the employee was taken to a local healthcare facility and stitches were required to treat lacerations in his left index & middle fingers .
the victim was driving his truck from the parking area downslope ont he haulroad to work area . victim was following another truck when the victims truck hit a patch of ice and he slid eventual ly striking berm the victim ws not wearing his seat belt at time . the victim had a structure of the l1 vertebrae and is to rest .
moving a piece of 8 '' channel 12 ' long that was in a travelway . one ee dropped his end causing the other ee to drop his end on his left foot .
ee waslifting miner cable/pulling on other jobs felt pull and tightness in his back .
i got a call on tuesday , feb 1 , cops looking for missing man . second call on wed feb 2 , still looking . wed feb 2 8pm-man found dead on mountain . he did not work for me , ever . did not know him . thursday paper described man found dead in weiser state forest . i was not allowed to enter property .
ee was removing the power modular from a dozer . he was standing between the frame of the dozer and the modular disconnecting hoses . he repositioned his leg and came in contact with an electrical plug bracket . he felt a pinch in his right leg but was unable to see what he was hitting with his leg . wears a support wrap and did not see he had cut into leg until he changed clothes .
ee climbed into the front end loader to start and warm it . the keys were not in the loader so he climbed out to get them . a hydraulic leak in the cab from the control console had saturated the floor and with oil on his shoes he slipped while descending the steps and pulled his lower right calf muscle .
rock fall occurred in the bleeder system up next to the pillar line in the 2nd left panel off 003 submains in the # 3 entry between the # 4 and # 5 crosscut . fall measured approximately 20 ' wide x 60 ' long x 5 ' thick .
ee was mounting his rtd he was on his second step when he lost his grip with his left hand . causing him to fall to the ground . ee got up and got in his rtd and noticed that it hurt to push the brake . he called his supervisor . ee was checked out by a first responder and was then taken into the er . xrays were taken and confirmed a break in his leg below the knee .
ee attempted to assist a customer unhook his tarping bar on his trailer , as he assisted the truck driver , bar came loose and struck the ee in the mouth . 10 stitches
replacing a belt structure rail at box cut-on # 1 slate belt . while lifting structure , had painin lower back .
the employee was laying in a panline when he began to slide down the pan . he put his leg up to stop himself and struck it on a roller . the employee felt a pop in his left knee . the employee did not begin to lose time until 6/14/2010 .
west virginia occupational pneumoconiosis award 10 % . received notification 6-17-02. man worked at mcelroy 1 year - spent most of working years at shoemaker mine .
drill steel got broken during ee's shift . when ee stepped out of drill , he slipped & fell .
loader on top of highwall emptied bucket containing rock . water truck was driving through pit . rock ( approximately 10 - 14 '' ) hit drivers door pushing door handle into thigh of driver . driver bruised on leg - no break . truck door replaced .
ee was using a hammer in an attempt to remove a worn cutting bit from the continuous miner ripper head . upon striking the bit a piece of the hammer head broke and penetrated the skin , imbeddin g in his right thumb . ee did not seek medical treatment for this injury until 4-18-02. the metal was surgically removed .
the ee was hooking up a diesel tractor to a rockdust . the ee smashed his left little finger between the draw bar and the draw bar hitch on the tractor . 7 stitches & fx of tip of finger .
individual had just moved a water pump and was getting back into mantrip when struck top of head on overcast i-beam . this caused individual to jam neck . did not seek treatment until 5/17/07 . diagnosed with neck sprain and given prescription .
employee was lifting an oxygen cyclinder and felt pain in his lower back .
employee was catching rock from chopper when a piece of rock struck ee in the eye ( right or left was not specified ) . worker was not wearing safety glasses as required . ee received a slight corneal abrasion . accident not reported until 2/29/2016 .
roof was bolted with split set bolts because of a hollow sound . months later it must of seperated causing excessive load for this style and number of bolts . this fall has been checked by both msha and msha tech support . two boom jumbo drill was heavily damaged .
employee stumbled on a step . while regaining hisbalance the spring-coiled microphone cord on histwo-way radio detached . the cord sprung up from the radio and the plug struck his left eye , caus ing a corneal abrasion .
a roof fall occurred in the 4th nw panel x cut 7 & 3 entry l 20'x w25 ' x t10 ' . 4 way intersection the roof was bolted with 10 ' point anchor bolts .
employee was unloading a bolter atrs beam , when it slid out of the scoop bucket on top of his right foot . employee's first day away from work was 8/18/14 .
employee was cutting fastners from feeder belt . he cut back towards himself , when the knife slipped , cutting his wrist .
roof fall 5th south panel entry 3 xc3 . maintenance ee found the fall around 1249am and reported to management and they reported to the msha immediate accident number then went to get roof fall secured with timbers and dangered off and started investigation of fall . fall was 18'x25'x10 ' hi bolted with 8 ' tr bolts , cable bolts , screened . fall is secured .
employee was installing a 10 ft 2 piece roof bolt in the roof . he was holding the coupler with his right hand and using the rotation to tighten the two bolts together . his glove got caught in the coupler causing his right arm to be pulled toward the bolter . he receieved a severe right shoulder dislocation .
operater of a 980f cat loader was checking a possible problem with his loader . he slipped and fell off of loader , breaking his left ankle .
employee was being lowered in manbasket . basket stopped suddenly . employee was standing with legs crossed lighting a cigarette when basket stopped causing him to fall in squatted position . knee struck basket interior causing injury .
ee walked around continuous miner during set-up in face area . the continuous miner operator did not see him and he re-positioned miner on centerline and the boom of the miner pinned ee's legs against coal rib . first lost work day occurred on 3/2/00 .
on 7/13/2015 dr. krasner dx employee with a standard threshold shift in both ears . this has not been determined as work related to date .
small roof fall ( 1 foot to 5 feet for 10 feet x 10 feet ) in workway of 14 right ( mmu 009-0 ) tailgate taht restricted safe travel . area was approximately 5 feet inby crosscut # 28 in the # 1 entr y of 14 right . tailgate blockage plan implemented after msha notification .
ee alleges he was trying to line up elbow with a pump . there was a crack in the weld and it flew back and hit him on his arm , cutting his left arm .
as a welder , the ee was pulling on a large piece of steel and either pulled or twisted back .
employee was trussbolting when rock fell from the roof , striking him on the right side of his head and on his right hip .
ee claims that he felt a sharp pain to his lower back while he was shoveling waste quicklime from the area near quicklime bin # 8. he claims that he was using a large snow shovel . ee did not re port the incident until 2-7-02 because he thought the injury might have been from an incident that occurred at home . he was released by his physician to return to full duty on 2-11-02 .
ee was using a ratched driven `` come-along '' when he pulled a muscle in his back
while operating a scoop the ee stated he ran over a crib block that he did not see in the roadway . the ee stated that the jerking motion caused him to have pain in his back .
the injured ee was cutting bags of ash feed material in our mill yard , and pulling the plastic lining out of the feed stokc pile . as he was pulling the plastic from the stock pilehe felt a pai n in his lower groin area , which resulted in a hernia .
ee alleges that while helping lift pump , he felt pain in his chest .
smoke was observed coming from an electrical pole sw of the surface loci shop . stillwater mine does not believe this was a reportable event but is filing this report at the direction of msha .
ee stepped outside the handrail to clean his windshield and his foot slipped causing him to fall into the turn signal .
ee was using a razor knife to cut conveyer belting . the blade broke causing the knife to slip and cut the ee's hand below the thumb . laceration required 4 stitches to close the wound .
on june 11,2002 ee scratched his leg while moving a crate containing windshield glass for a loader . the rigging failed and came in contact with his shin causing a minor scratch on rt . shin . du e to complications of diabetes , the scratch became infected and the ee was hospitalized over night on june 26 , 2002 .
employee wasloading rock dust on his scoop and said he felt a sharp pain in lower back .
mechanic was using pressure washer to wash off mud from left hand and injected degreaser into palm of their left hand . mechanic was taken into doctor and treated for infection .
ee was cleaning a head drive when a foreign object entered his right eye .
ee has a history of back problems . he is 53 yrs . old . he carried some bottom belt rollers up belt line and afterwards his back was hurting him . this is an occupation illness . i talked to super visor in denver about this . didn't miss work until 4-2-02 .
employee was installing gate on mine road and while lifting on gate became unbalanced . employee originally starting missing on 4/21/2007 for personal illness . employee notifed employer on 6/25/2007 he was going to seek medical treatment for back strain which occured on 4/20/2007 .
injury strained his back while climbing a ladder . he has had previous problems with lower back strains and inflamation prior to this incident . he did not have what would be considered an accident . it was considered a strain due to his physical condition and age . the original accident occured on 7/28/09 , but was not diagnosed until 8/3/09 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine north portal at crosscut 13 on the flannigan travelway 1783 ' west . the fall was approximately 20 ' long , 18 ' wide & an unknown thickness . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will not be cleaned up .
as ee was grading the haul road , he hit a rock with his blade , causing a quick jerk to his back .
while dumping bags into the waste bin refeeder , worker felt a pain in his lower left back .
ee was lifting ventilation tube overhead in a confined work space and felt pain in his shoulder .
ee was attempting to lift a roll of mine curtainonto a supply trailer when he noticed a pain on his right side . the pain continued & on 1/28/02 he started missing work due to hernia surgery .
ee was assisting with the removal of a broken top belt roller . the roller was under tension from the top belt and when it was pulled free of the tension , it rotated upward striking ee on the face in the left cheek area .
while striking a steel punch , a piece of steel broke off and struck ee in the right arm . he was helpings to set bits on a continious miner . the steel was removed by a physician .
fixing belt at plant with flexco and it slipped and cut index finger on right hand .
while lifting a section of conveying screw , employee suffered a thorasic muscle strain .
miner was feeding the saw table with a block of stone . as ee lifted and set the stone onto the table ee caught the edge of pinky finger against the metal table and the force of the stone causing rupture to finger
trying to get grease gun primed . hit gun on rubber sleve of fresh water pump . there was a stud sticking out of rubber sleve and finger was hit between stud and grease gun tearing off fingernai l and breaking tip of finger .
contractor had removed fasteners attaching set of steps to concrete wall . the steps were reset against wall after work was completed , w/o reattaching to fasteners . man descended steps , the sli d out from under ee . ee fell and rolled left foot over . ee was taken for treat ment on 10-27-01 after pain continued . xray revealed broken bone in foot . ee's foot was wrapped & a support shoe
a non-injury accident , the unintentional stoppage of the elevator at the oakdale portal entrapping 6 people on-board from 5:23 pm until 7:15 pm . a repairman from schemdler was called to correct the malfunction .
ee was exiting a 10 sc shuttle car and lost his footing and went to catch himself and injured right hand .
ee was painting on processing plant and felt his knee pop when raising from a squatting position . cont's . to work without restriction on 4/9 & 4/10 . became reportable on 4/11/13 when ee went to doctor due to discomfort . doctor requested that ee not work for 5 days .
ee was climbing up on fender to inspect for large rock . he slipped on a lower beam & fell sideways onto his right side causing injury . he fell approx 21/2 ft onto a large rock
ee had pipe wrench on an airlock shaft trying to turn it . he squated underneath the pipe wrench/cheater bar and pushed up , putting pressure on the top of his shoulde3r . this resulted in an apparent shoulder strain .
ee was welding on the left c/miner he was down on his right knee he twisted toward his left and when he did this he twisted his back and felt pain in his left leg . he was given 2 days away from work . ( after we received a copy of the mri report we would like to amend this to an occupation illnes.. because we feel this single didnt cause his injury but report movement .
ee was hooking air & water hose to drill basket.rock fell from rib hitting his right foot .
reportable hearing loss per 30 cfr 62 based on annual audiogram . left ear - shift of 28.6 ; right ear - not reportable at this time ( shift of 19.6 ) .
ee was attempting to rerail a mantrip when the jack fell over and struck ee in the left knee .
ee was loading stone onto the conveyor for the thin veneer saw . a stone fell off the pallet he was unstacking onto his foot .
ee was attempting to dislodge by hand a 50 # bag of product that had gotten stuck at the corner of the palletizer belt system : he caught his glove between the belt tail pulley and thr guide that keeps the bags on the belt , lacerating the middle finger of his left hand .
ee in a heading when a piece of rock fell striking ee in the head . ee received sutures and released back to full duty .
ee strained right bicep while pulling pump hose . restricted duty .
ee was bolting top in # 7 heading on 1st left section , finished his row of bolts and was getting ready to advance pinner , when rock broke loose in between bolts and struck him on the head and shoulder .
inby spad # 10787 in the # 1 entry of 001-0 mmu a roof fall occurred in the bleeder of the section . the fall was approximatley 19'x45x6 ' . the strata is mixed & wet .
cleaning out a piece of equipment ( vsi ) with an air chisel . a piece of dirt or rock got into his right eye .
independent contractor employee was inspecting panel interior for an arc flash study , 2 employees lifted panel cover ( 100 # s ) into place secured w/installed latches . panel cover bowed out at bottom . employee tightened bottom center latch screw w/right hand while checking gap with left . cover dislodged fell catching employee's middle finger left hand .
lifting a block of flagstone with crowbar , block slipped and fell against left leg calf and shin . taken for x-rays to be sure of no broken bones . no bones were broken . scrape of skin and bruis ing only .
fireboss examining # 4 belts , slipped and fell . caught himself with left hand , landed on left side , dislocating his left shoulder .
ee sprained right foot stepped in low area of shop . began restricted duty 4-8-01 .
moving launch on highwall miner getting ready to pull out when hose burst and struck victim in the back of the head and at the base of the skull . temporarily knocked him out while knocking him onto the launch pad .
employee was using flexane 80 putty to seal around bolts on the spf hopper screws . vapors being released from product caused some type of allergic reaction on the arms of employee . employee noticed itching and removed himself from area . a poison ivy type rash developed on arms .
ee was replacing belts on roof bolter blower motor . ee was rolling belts onto pulley which rolled backward , pinning his right hand between belt and pulley .
employee was removing a hydraulic filter with a wrench when ee strained lower back , causing a lumbar strain .
two maintenance persons were tossing a piece of irregular shaped scrap cast iron pipe into a scrap metal dumpster . piece caught edge of dumpster and spun and pinched two fingers between pipe and dumpster
phillips electrical technologies ee was drilling a hole to relocate a ground bar in an electrical panel . ee received an arc flash on his face , neck and arms . he was transported to grady hospital in atlanta , ga for treatment of second degree burns and is expected to be released on 9/29/06 .
employee needed to clear a rock that was trapped in the tailgate after dumping a load . ee used ee's hand and pulled on the side pin of the tailgate to open it . the rock cleared sooner than expected and the pin cut ee's finger as the tailgate returned to the closed position . ee sustained a laceration that required stitches .
ee slid off dozer pusher arm striking left elbow on grab handle on rear of blade . this caused a severe contusion which led to a blood clot on 1-10-02 & ee was then hospitalized . ee work a full shift on 1-9-02 .
injury was working from a ladder next to a conv . belt when finish he step down off the ladder and strain his left ankle .
an anonymous caller informed msha there was a fire at stockpile # 4. there were no flames in the stockpile but steam and smoke were present from the dozer moving the coal to cool it down .
north mains 51 block # 5 heading , 4-way intersection mmu 003 14 ft high by 18 ft wide by 20 ft long . type of support , 6 ft resin , 6 '' by 16 '' plates . roof mats , screen acs jacks fall dangered off . additional roof support set around fall . fall clean up plan developed and posted at fall .
relocating shaker screen frame approx 50 ft from original location with forklift . frame was being set down on 2 - 6 '' x 4 '' x 5 ' wood blocks due to shaft housing placement located on frame . as f rame touched blocks , it rotated pulling him in front , as frame fell it sandwiched him between it and 25 '' dia pipe .
roof material from above and in front of longwall shields flushed onto face conveyor and walkway blocking egress for eleven persons for about 1 hour and 40 minutes .
note : employee did not seek medical for significant time following actual date of injury . med status for days away 1/9/2018 . installing cylinder on loader , the cylinder slipped and forced weight to the shoulder causing their leg to slip out from under them causing strain to hip/shoulder .
while climbing off of the top head after doing maintenance , helper slipped and fell four feet to the ground . he instintively extended his arm to break the fall and fractured his right wrist
employee was building a crib when he slipped andfelt a sharp pain in his left knee . on 5/25/00 aorthopedic doctor diagnosed the injury as medialmeniscal tear in left knee . employee required surgery .
ee was moving a barrel of oil with a barrel cart . the barrel slid off the feet of the cart & partly tipped over so as to be leaning on an angle of about 45 degrees . he took hold of the barrel & stood it back up . in doing so he felt a strain in his groin . he went to the doctor who told him he had a minor hernia . he was released for light duty .
a methane ignition occured in the 2 to 3 crosscut on the 5 right section off of 3 east mains . the ignition occured when a miner cable blew up which ignited the methane bleeders near the top of the rib near the mine roof . chemical fire extinguished the 1-2 minute duration flames .
employee was poking steel balls out of the chuteat # 9 ball bin . the steel bar used as a poker gave way and his right hand struck the steel frame above the chute .
ee was getting ready to go through a 3'x 3 ' man-door . he went throung with his lt. leg & twistedrt . knee which was supporting his body weight .
an employee was using a hammer to pound a pin while building the a longwall tail drive . the hammer slipped out of the users hand and glanced off of the pan line and struck another employee above the left eye causing a laceration . 12 stitches to close .
ee was backing haul unit under loader to be loaded with shot rock . as he neared the loader , his back tire rolled onto a slightly higher spot on the pit floor . this caused his bed to tilt up hitting loader arm . he received strain to neck/shoulder are . was 1st aid ( and dr's 1st aid ) until 10/13 when he began medical treatment ( physical therapy )
ee was descending from haul truck . ee continued to try and descend with lunch box in one hand and the seat cushion in the other , while holding handrail . ee slipped on the last step and fell approximately 30 '' to the ground , landing on back side . ee didn't wish to see a doctor until the following tuesday ( 10/18 ) ee was put on light duty and went on vacation effective 10/19/16 .
5 north headgate in crosscut , man was bolting of left side of miner when a rock fell from between the roof straps hit him on nose hard hat
employee was torching the legs off a stand ee fabricated and a glob of slag dripped onto ee's hand . ee received 2nd degree burn on ee's hand where the slag landed .
while working at east lime loadout , a 2nd shift vac truck employee stumbled over his boots and fell onto a handrail . the right side of his chest and stomach made contact with the handrail causing him pain . the employee was evaluated at the er and given restrictions .
at approximately 9:15 am a miner was cleaning up at face and bucket hit a miss hole which was set off . hole was approximately 18 inches from the floor . no injuries were sustained . the 1.5 yard jci loader had a portion of the bucket lip damaged .
employee was standing in safe zone , while haul truck was dumping into hoppr stones , come off haul truck , hopper stricking employee .
injured employee was struck on the upper back and neck by a rock weighing approx . 6.3lbs that fell approx . 70 feet from above from the rc4 belt . injured employee was treated by emt's and ems then airlifted to camc-general ed . he was admitted for observation and diagnosed with vertebrae fractures of the neck and tissue bruising .
while moving a dynapac roller on the job site the operator lost control of the roller . the opertor removed the seat belt and jumped from the roller . the operator fractured her right leg when she hit the ground .
employee was standing in the truck shop and collapsed from a heart attack and pronounced dead at the hospital . emt ? s with deliberator were on the scene with in four minutes .
employee was walking to the head drive . ee walked beneath the highline and rose up before clearing it and jammed head . employee started missing 02/16/16 .
a roof fall occured at 94 block on main north haulage . no injuries . fall dimensions ( intersection ) 24 ' x 22 ' x 6 to 8 ' high .
e was placing jackleg drill onto bolt deck after completion of bolting . while laying drill down into holding cradle e's right hand got pinched between drill and holding cradle causing lacerations to his right index finger that required sutures .
the ee was lifting up one end of a replacement auger to slide it into the bucket of the skidster . while lifting the end of the auger , the ee heard a popping noise and felt pain in the rt . shoulder .
the weekly examiner found this fall on his weekly run in g entry of the north b return at spad # 5+99 the fall was approximately 20'long and 17'wide and 6'high . this area was mined in 5/1/2006 and was supported with 6 ' fully grouted bolts . no injuries or property damage . the fall is blocking the return as is being cleaned up and supported .
# 34 service hoist went down at 6:55 am . contacted electricians at 6:55 am . called msha at 7:25 am . electricians found a bad contact . hoist was back up and running again at 10:20 am . called msha at 10:36 to report hoist was in service .
ee was climbing into loader when he slipped and struck his head against top step causing laceration to scalp & contusion .
employee was out of loader checking on a piece of steel next to feeder . when walking back to loader a falling rock off a rock discharge shoot or conveyor belt fell and struck employee in back of head causing him to fall to the ground and become disoriented and bleeding accutely .
employee was changing drill bit on a press drill . employee failed to engage lock fully and as ee removed bit the drift pin fell . employees left thumb was struck . thumb bone was fractured .
ee was reclaiming stones from stock pile when a larger stone rolled down and smashed his finger .
ee parked mantrip , got out , was getting chock block out of rear compartment . truck started to roll down hill , ee tried to get back in truck and fell dwon or was knocked down by rear compartment of truck . this resulted in 2 broken ribs and broken bone ni right foot ( metatarsus ) .
the ee was walking and slipped on some ice , landing on her elbow . at that time , she did not want to seek medical attention . then on 2-10 her elbow was still hurting and at tyhat time she went to the doctor . she was placed on restricted duty at that time .
employee's left hand got caught in the belt clamps while working on teh slope belt . resulting in 3 fractured fingers .
ee was holding a back up wrench while bolts were being tightened . the wrench pinned his hand to the body of the heater . this caused a fracture to his index finger on his left hand . ee is not l osing any time and is not on work restrictions .
employee was roof bolting . ee was walking back toward the back of the roof bolter to get more roof bolts when ee tripped over a piece of draw rock and twisted left ankle .
on 3/26/03 , employee was climbing on an extension ladder to weld on a shoot that was leaking , as he climbed to approx 6 ' or 7 ' the ladder slipped causing him to fall to the floor . due to the r esulting fall he received a fracture to his left hand , concussion and a laceration above his left eye requiring four sutures to close .
ee was cutting a roofbolt . when the bolt was cut into , the pressure on it cuased it to swing around and strike the ee on the right index finger . ee was given a metal splint to protect from further injury . x-rays were negative
working in a manlift in tight quarters while changing a roller bearing , employee turned and struck temple on a piece of angle iron .
ee is stating that he was pushing a wheelbarrow on the concrete floor of the plant with approx 10 # s of loose coal/mud in it . he crouched down a little to go under a structure and when he proc eeded he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . this caused him to go to his knees and then on the floor .
employee states he has pain in his left shoulder , elbow and wrist which he feels results from repetitive work such as putting cribs in the tailgate . ee was sent for an evaluation and it has been determined he meets the co workers comp guidelines for an oi .
ee was changing a tarp arm bearning when he heard a big bang and then the spring relased hittin ghim in the left wrist .
mobile equipment specialist called into work on the morning of 3/12 and informed ee's supervisor that ee's back was too sore to come into work . ee said ee's back was hurting from performing pumping activities the day prior . ee was taken to the medical clinic on mar . 14th where ee was diagnosed with a lower back strain . restrictions and medications made this a recordable injury .
ee was inside the screen holding the housing bolts from turning the deister serviceman started drawing the bolt out , the bolt was driven out and flew at ee and struck him in the mouth , breakin g his right upper incissor .
employee was assisting with maintenance and walked up a ladder to hand off a wrench . when ee was stepping back down ee felt pain in lower back .
ee was operating a 773b cat quarry truck ont he quarry bed when a spring broke int he seat he was in causing him to jam his lower back .
while loading 100 lb . bags , ee has experienced pain in upper back and neck area .
ee was riding out of the mine in a manbus , the bus hit a hole in the road & caused ee to bounce when he came down on his cap lamp battery causing a contusion to his right hip . this incident has been under investigation pending a medical evaulation y
ee was blow piping the feed chute to the 3/w crusher . some muck fell and struck the pipe . his left hand was on the shut-off valve and when the muck fell , it pushed the pipe back . his hand stru ck the air cylinder , fracturing it above his ring finger . returned full duty .
ee was lifting a pump out of a sump when the pump slipped from his hands . ee grabbed for the pump and wrenched the right arm and shoulder , starting at the elbow . ee continued to work until 1/10/11 when his restriction for transitional work could not be met .
while removing a flight from a loader conveyor chain , a piece of metal flew off the flight when struck with a sledge hammer and hit the employee under bottom lip . ee received two sutures .
ee was changing places with the roof bolter at the intersection when he backed into the rib of coal causing coal and rock to break loose and come into the machine on his left side shoulder , ne ck and arm .
the cedar creek service elevator was out of service from approximately 4:15 pm to 7:30 pm on 11/23/04 due to diodes on powerboard .
ee states he picked up the end of a piece of pipe weighing about 200 # . felt a twinge in groin area . reported incident the next day . prescription medication after dr.'s visit .
employee's hand became pinched between a manlift basket and a crusher flywheel .
employee was climbing through an access door onto an alimak climber when the door came down on his hand . the falling door broke the bone in the tip of his right middle finger and caused a laceration to the same which required sutures .
employee noticed inflamation on the right eye . resulting in treatment with a prescription ointment .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at spad # 4317 on the 001 section between the # 3 and # 4 entries . the fall occurred approx . 2400 ' from active face . this area was developed approx . 10/15/09 . fall measured 30'l x 20'w x 5 ' h. ventilation and passage of person was not affected . area will be rehab 'd . state and federal agencies were notified immediately .
ee was changing tire thumb attachment on jd 790 exc . he was hammering the pin through that wouldsecure it in place . the two parts were not completely aligned and the impact with the back end o f the ax head resulted in stress to the muscles of the abdomen .
deckhand employee was working on the dock when the dock winch barge haul cable broke . the cable struck the employee in the back knocking him to the ground , he substained a cut on the nose and puncher to the chin .
ee was lowering a slider bed that was vertical on a dolly . while lowering ee felt a pop in ee's left arm . ee found out 06/13/2018 that ee needed surgery to repair torn tendon . surgery was 06/15/2018 . ee will be on restricted duty until released from dr .
ee was struck on the back by a rock brow that broke out from around roof bolts ( 10-12 '' thick , 18-48 '' wide and 90-96 '' long ) . ee sustained fracures to left ribs , lower back and neck . accident occurred on the mmu 003-0 section .
employee was helping left side bolter on cm make up bolts when a rock ( 3'9 '' l , 2 ' w , 10 '' thick ) struck him in the head , neck , right shoulder and forearm , and left hand causing two fractured fingers , several lacerations to the fingers , and severed the tip of his left thumb . the rock fell out between straps . the roof support was installed according to plan .
ee was unloading , stacking , cutting & tapering drill steel , felt pain in lower back , groin . ee saw dr 8/10/01 on 3/22/02 ee underwent surgical repair of right inguinal hernia . retd to light d uty 4/8/02 & full duty 5/6/02
the mine received notification on february 17 , 2016 that this former employee was granted a .73 % award for permanent impairment from noise-induced hearing loss . the incident was caused by the employee's failure to wear the appropriate ppe - hearing protection throughout career .
a roof fall occurred in the intersection in the # 3 entry , 600 ' outby the no . 2 section at spad # 391. fall was ~5'thick , 19 ' wide & 19 ' long . no persons or equipment were involved nor were trav elways or airways affected . the area was cribbedoff .
ee reported on 10/15/01 that he had injured himself on 9/13 by using a rope and pulley to lift apiece of metal to the top of the raw feed bins . according to him , the hand over hand action caus ed pain in his right shoulder . on november 12 hebrought in a slip from his treating physician which stated that he had limited overhead lift/push/pull of 10 lb .
while descending a fixed ladder , wasps from a nearby nest flew at employee . he quickened his pace and possibly missed a rung of the ladder , thenfell to the ground .
a ee & co-worker were cleaning rock dust form under a motor base of a inclined finish screen . the 2 men were on a catwalk that collapsed and dropped them 10 ' to a conveyor which they bounced off of and fell another 7 ' to plant grade . ee was released .
employee felt lower back and hip pain while operating the loader in the wash plant yard ( bouncing in seat ) . he visited a doctor who felt that the condition was due to body alignment verses a d isk problem . on 2/2/04 the employee was treated for a bulging disk by another doctor . the employee required surgery and the injury is now being considered work-related .
location/section-mains , # 6 entry at the face . ee bent over to remove a rock off of the scoop charging cable . he injured his lower back .
ee was descending ladder of r-35 truck . the rungs of ladder were wet and empoyee's foot slipped of one rung .
employee was operating mantrip . as he started under the belt on e-mains track- the trip struck the guard and dislodged it . he was caught by the guard and twisted around in the operations compa rtment . he developed lower back pain . no days were lost medical treatment only .
about 30 bk , rock fell from top and struck employee on head and right forearm .
ee was using an overhead hoist to turn over a screen deck frame . the rod holding eye broke on the screen fram , dropping the frame on the ee's left foot behind the steel toe area .
employee was getting down into wash box . foot was on a step inside the wash box & left arm resting on top of wash box overflow . as ee stepped on down , ee drug arm down , and a sharp piece of metal on the edge of the box lacerated the underside of forearm . required sutures .
ee was in process of closing the door of a dk45 drill tech highwall drill , when closing door ee caught left thumb against door jam and hinged area .
fall occurred in the # 3 entry on the no . 2 section which measured 25 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' and was located on the no 3 sw mains one break inby survey station 2292 .
ee was bolting in the # 6 entry . he lowered the drill head and the drill steel fell out of hole . ee twisted around to grab it and felt intense pain in both knees . he was transported and admitted to raleigh general hospital due to pain and swelling .
employee was crossing over the ref belt on a catwalk to get to the classifying sump on b side . while employee was traveling over employee's hard hat came into contact with the discharge pipe of the spiral ref screen causing employee to chip a tooth .
employee was rehab bolting an area with screen wire installed on the back . a small piece of rock fell through the 4 '' x4 '' opening and bounced off of the jackleg drill muffler , striking his face , causing a laceration on the bridge of his nose which required sutures .
ee was replacing the rear suspension cylinder on a cat 793 truck . as he was using a sledge hammer to drive the top strut pin from its bore he felt a pain in his right wrist . he did not report the incident at that time . on 9/22/06 , as he was loosening/tightening the wear plate retaining bolts on a 24m motor grader , using a 3/4 '' impact wrench , he again experienced pain in wrist .
ee was standing on catwalk holding onto rope that we use to put hoist cable on to keep from having to walk the boom , when the rope was pulled by another employee . this twisted ee around and pulled a muscle in ee's back .
the # 5 rock came from the shot in big pieces . we were building a ramp with this material without any problems . it started to rain making the boulders slippery . ee climbed his front tire up on a boulder and it slipped off the other side bringing the truck down fast and hard , jarring and rocking him suddenly . this motion is what is suspected to have caused the cervical radiculopathy .
employee was using a hammer hitting a conveyer shaft and hit left index finger against a piece of metal . ee received 3 sutures to left index finger . no lost time .
ee was removing a 3.5 '' piece of shaft used as a safety block in the crusher when the shaft slipped from the far side of the crusher pinching the ee's right thumb against the frame of the crusher resulted in lacerations and a chipped bone . medical only no lost time .
the roads were wet & slippery , ee was trying to pass a coal truck , lost control of his s10 and went to into a slump hole around marker # 22. it skinned his cheek , put a laceration in his knee requiring 5 stitches , and a contusion .
3 right-5 south longwall recovery face at 28 shield . 28 shield was about to be pulled off face . man saw day shift employees coming in to relieve them and started to leave . `` f '' bar chain broke hitting him on left thigh .
ee was asked to stockpile rock at stockpile area . he was backing up across pad and struck an f-250 in front left corner . the f-250 was parked with nobody in it at time of accident . at this time i was notified and went to the scene of the accident . ee was sent for a drug screen at 10am , the very next morning ( no personal injuries occurred from this accident )
the employee attempted to place a guard back over a moving conveyor ; although , policies in place at the plant require the conveyor to be stoppped . the guard bumped into the moving conveyor and bounced up into the employee's chin . his chin was lacerated , requiring several stiches .
ee was shoveling spilled material over the course of three days . ee complained of soreness and condition worsened in his left shoulder . ee returned to work . soreness persisted and ee began lea ve on march 5 , 2002 .
repairing belt , belt clamp slipped hit ee in left forearm . returned to work 4-9-00. re-evaluated 4-10-00 then 4-14-00 , missed 4-14-00 still no damage found .
employee was involved with putting a splice in belt 89-806 ; the temperature in the tube was hot & the dust was bad and caused burns to his legs around the top of his boots & the top part of hi s legs .
three employees were moving parking logs around the yard . they had new chain ( 15 ft ) tied to the bucket . the chain lost its slack on one side ofthe bucket , so employee bent down to get the rig ht amount of slack in the chain . when he stood up is when he felt a pop in his back .
employee had been cutting a pipe with a band-saw so it would fit in the dumpster . a piece of pipe was on the rack where it had been cut off and employee said when he walked by the pipe it rolled and fell off poking his arm on the way down .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by mine examiner in old works . fall measured 20 ' wide x 50 ' long x 4 ' high . fall located between spad # 4695 & spad # 4631 .
received a cwp claim for employee on 10/28/2013 .
ee said he climbed down a ladder and jumped off the bottom step , which is 14 '' to the ground , but another ee ( who does not want to be identified ) seen him jump from the top of the platform to the ground , which is 6 ' .
on 10/24/17 , employee was walking into a tunnel & tripped over a conveyor belt laying on the ground . employee attempted to catch self by bracing self to the wall with left hand . ee received first aid treatment . employee continued to experience pain & discomfort & decided to seek medical attention on 11/13/17 - diagnosed with a strained left shoulder & on restricted duty .
ee has been awarded an occupational hearing loss claim .
ee was lifting a 5 gal bucket with broken con twisted and pulled back muscles . ee was off ( normal offtime ) the next two days . ee called in on the 31st and said he was going to the dr. the dr. prescribed physical therapy .
ee was helping move a piece of rock off of the continuous miner one end of rock slid sideways , pinching hand and arm against roof .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on e-9a mains in the no . 3 entry inby spad 9729. the fall measured 5 ' high , 18 ' wide , 8 ' long .
ee alleges his right knee locked up while crossing a belt crosswalk . note : he worked until 080505 , then started missing due to alleged injury
while moving trailing cable and j-boxes , ee strained right shoulder . the technician was using a j-hook to assist in moving the cable .
ee was loading a tanker truck from silo . had opened the hatches using fall protection , then came down to load truck . after truck was loaded , ee filled out the paperwork & gave it to driver . as usual , ee then climbed back up the truck to close the hatches . ee turned to tie off using fall protection , but truck started driving away . ee grabbed an i-beam to hang on to .
ee ( temporary employee ) was roof bolting when a piece of roof rock approximately 1ft . x 1ft . x 1-4in . fell and struck him on the right hand . he received a laceration and a fracture to his right ring finger . 4 sutures to close laceration and finger splinted .
at approximately 7:11 pm the silver shaft hoistman was in the process of skipping muck when the hoist tripped out and could not be reset . the electrical department was notified and it was diagnosed that there was a faulty hc inverter .
walking to rivier pump stepping over pvc pipe , foot slipped on pipe , twisting left knee .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the west mains section ( mmu 074 ) beltline ; the fall is atsurvey station 5+68 entry # 5. fall will affect production for several shifts . fall is approxi- mately 7 ' higher than mine roof , 18'-35 ' wide & 20 ' long . area is dangered off and recorded in examiners book .
upon an investigation the ee , and miner operatorwere mining the first top left lift in pillar # 182. ee heard a piller bump and saw a piece of rock ( slip ) falling at and near where he was posit ioned . he raised his left arm up toward his face & moved his body position to avoid contact . his left elbow was struck the the rock causing a cutthat required sutures .
rib roll/roof fall combination on south b section # 5 entry 30 ' inby station 1266. poor geology . fell above ancorage .
ee was doing clean-up and while moving a floor stand , he felt pain in lower stomach . ee went to dr. on 9-18-02 , when he was diagnosed with a navel hernia .
the lid on the vsi was opened at the end of the shift to do maintenance . it was left open overnight to finish the next day . when they started changing lid liners , they didn't know the hyd pressure had bled off but the lid was stuck in the raised position . ee stood on the lid & it dropped apprx 2 ft causing him to loose balance & fall off . he was not wearing fall protection .
ee was looking through screens at the maintenance pole shed . ee stepped down approx . 6 inches and felt sudden extreme pain in lower back .
on 5-1-09 employee was bolting top when a piece of rock fell and hit him on the left arm mid way between the wrist and elbow . x-rays at buchanan hospital showed negative . on 5-15-09 an mri was conducted and a fracture was obsrved . ( the orthopedic dr said that it was not borken-it was only a bone bruise by misc mail 6/2/09 # 6 )
while demonstrating to customers employee standard proceedure for changing a scraper blade . a pry bar being used slipped mashing factory reps. right thumb between pry bar and hand rail .
ee states that he was holding brake shoe trying to align bolt holes and was struck on finger with hammer being used by another person .
ee was trying to lift a beam off of another employee that was was working for a subcontractor .
a roof fall measuring 50'x20'x9 ' occurred on the 14 right panel , 2 x-cuts outby the face neal spad 1816 .
empoyee pinched finger while installing filter leaves requiring sutures .
the ee was shoveling salt at the bottom of the 14 ' shaft as she twisted to throw the salt out of the shove , she felt a pain in her lower left side . she has continued to work at her regular occ upation , but has been scvheduled for therapy the week of 10-8 and 10-15 , 3 times a week .
operating johnson mantrip when steering knob struck back of hand
employee has worked for ep minerals for 20 years , and through an annual chest x-ray , likely signs of silicotic nodules were detected .
while operating a shuttle car , ee ran over a block of coal which bounced him into the canopy , causing pain in his left arm and down left leg .
employee just stepped through an approximate 3 ' x 3 ' mandoor at xc22 , the air caught the door and slammed it shut abruptly . employee was holding onto the door handle with his right hand , as the door slammed shut , he pulled his hand away quickly and his index finger was struck by the door or he struck his hand on the door frame .
ee was welding a section of pipe & removed his welding hood & safety glasses to inspect his work as he says they were fogged up . some welding slag had dripped onto the concrete below the weld & the cement heated & popped . some debris flew into his eye . he was treated onsite w/eyewash & sent to local treatment center the next day . dr's report stated superficial burn & abrasion
employee was walking up a sloped pond embankment and felt a pop and burning sensation in the calf of his right leg . normal work activities were ongoing and employee was not running and did not trip or slip . employee was scheduled for a ct scan which diagnosed a tear in a gastro muscle of the calf . physical therapy/healing time was ordered and employee could not rtw for 4-6 weeks .
ee was inspecting the pads and roller on a feeder . he grabbed a wheel to slide it out and felt a burning in his shoulder .
rock fall in a panel ( spad 10+50 # 2 entry ) off holt road submain . fall size in # 2 entry 60 ft by 18 ft by unknown height and across cut 2- right for 50 ft by 18 ft by unknown height . this is an l shape fall . section moved from this area appr . 2 weeks ago and producing in b panel approx . 1700 ft away from fall area .
unintentional roof fall occurred in # 5 entry- 1 break inby spad # 15127. measurement : 20 ' ( l ) x 20 ' ( w ) x 6 ' to 8 ' ( t ) .
while operating an eimco miner , he turned to look back at load on ram car . his back popped and began to hurt and his left side started going numb .
ee was climbing down a ladder on an it28 ( loader ) and strained his right ankle .
at around 9:30 pm , a phone call was made to inform ohioamerican energy that a small fire could be seen at the prep plant . the mine superintendent and safety director then drove to the prep plant . upon arrival , a small fire ( approximately 6 feet x 6 feet ) could be seen burning on the coal stockpile . a d11 dozer was utilized to spread out the coal and quickly put out the fire .
ee was unloading an empty acetylene tank from his service truck & felt a sharp burning pain in his right lower abdomen .
ee leaned over to put battery on dolly & twistedlower back . ee did not become a restricted until 7-9-03 .
ee has carpal tunnel and had surgery this day .
ee work in the storeroom , which entails a lot of computer work . ee has been experiencing pain in right arm .
ee's glove got caught in cable while pulling cable thru a conduit using a tugger . causing fracture of r 5th metacarpal ( boxer fracture )
ee was preparing to reinforce rock that had already been bolted when the rock cracked , striking ee on the foot .
ee was installing a roofbolt into the roof , lifting with his right arm when he felt pain in his lower back .
the day shift roof bolter operator was drilling a test hole in the intersection between no . 6 & no . 7 entries near spad # 1105 when drill steel struck his left thumb .
repairs were being made to the right front wheel . the wheel cover dropped off and rolled on the ground towards injured ee . as the cover rolled between his legs he tried to keep it from hitting him . in doing so his finger on right hand got caught in the cover and broke his finger .
ee was getting out of his tractor , said when he started to twist his body around he felt pain in his back .
control rm received high co alarm and operator was called out to assess . operator utilized a gas meter to assess and it triggered high co levels . coal barn was assessed . coal barn showed signs of smoke . fire dept was called , they provided services and fire was extinguished . on-site personnel monitored area . investigation shows a damaged electrical cord on the c1 conveyor .
a fall of the roof occurred on the # 2 unit , # 6 entry xcut # 29 inby spad # 1261. approx 70'l , 17'w , 7't in a 4 way intersection bolted with point anchor 6 ' bolts not to be cleaned up at this tim e did not affect passage of men or ventilation .
ee was installing a light fixture . he mis-stepped and grabbed the light fixture , cutting his right hand on the sheet metal frame . stitches required and released to full duty .
employee received a lime in the eye and inhalation injury . the employee was working on a bearing change when the mill bin located above him over flowed and spilled material on top of him . employee eyes were washed out and sent to the ed for evaluation .
he was shoveling belt and while attempting to throw the material up to the belt from the bottom , he felt sharp pains in his lower back . he stoped work and was taken outside where he transport ed himself to the hospital ; he hasn't returned .
# 2 hoist down ( electrical switch ) no danger to employees . msha notified via phone at 1:07pm 6/14/2008 .
a fall of the mine roof was discovered at 53 brk # 1 west intake in the # entry . the fall does not a affect travel or ventilation the fall measured approx . 20 ' wide x 20 ' long x 6 ' thick .
the employe was on top of the tailgate drive cleaning off rocks . he started to get down , reached for a hose to hold on to , his toe hung up causing him to loose his balance miss the hose , falling head first into the pontoon on the shield . the tailgate drive is about 4 feet off the grouond . he required 8 stitches above his right eye and fractured the tip of his left thumb .
the # 8 elevator was inspected by shindler , msha and msha technical support . although the top and bottom door switches checked good , it was decided to replace both swithches . the elevator was taken out of service for over a period of 30 min . all persons underground were notified and the escapeways were re-routed . the switches were changed and elevator was back in service .
truck driver attempted to dump trailer on uneven surface . trailer overtuned .
ee had completed installing an alternator belt on a cat 24h motor grader and was making final checks when a rock rolled off a nearby spoils pile and struck him int he legs . his left leg was fr actured and his right leg sustained a 3 inch laceration .
ee was helping another ee move a scrap piece of steel out of the path of a manlift . the piece of steel shifted and pinchwedf ee's middle index finger causing a very minor fracture to rt . middl e fingertip . ee missed wrk from 7-21 to 8-2 .
employee was using a knocker wrench to tighten the bolts on # 1 sandtailings . when he hit the knocker wrench with a sledge hammer , the wrench came off and hit him in the mouth .
worker was gringing a piece of metal to make room for another piece to fit when a piece of metal or gringing material entered under the face shield . ( bounced off chest ) .
ee disconnected a hydraulic hose while under pressure striking his right forearm , causing 2 1/2 '' lacerations .
throughout the course of employee's shift , he was inadvertantly exposed to welding & cutting processes that were taking place around him . this exposure resulted in welding flash in both eyes . he was treated the following day .
ee was hitting belt structure with a hammer and a piece of metal hit him in the right eye .
the employee sought medical treatment for `` trigger finger issues '' . after seeking a second opinion , he was diagnosed with bilateral carper tunnel syndrome . he will be undergoing treatment for t his condition .
the ee was manually loading 8 '' concrete block into a scoop bucket . as he lifted a block and turned to stack it he felt pain in his lower back .
employee stated that he stepped over a beam approximately 4 '' high from walking level and as he put his wt on his rt foot , his ankle turned causing him to lose his balance and fall on concrete floor . ee stated his ankle hurt . at first ee thought is was an ankle sprain . ee returned to wk on 2/15/01 but had to return to dr on 2/16/01 .
ee fell from front bumper of a 777 coal truck
while moving electric shovel cable , employee was struck by the cable in the left ankle . employee was watching the cable and the pickup in front of ee when a section of cable contacted the employee from the side resulting in a fracture to the left ankle which required surgery to repair .
the employee was on a conveyer belt . harness was on . the employee failed to follow lockout tagout procedures . the belt was started and the employee jumped from the belt causing a hairline fracture to the right ankle . employee is currently on light duty .
ee was using a ratchet with a 12 '' extension to remove a bolt from a converter on a loader . he exerted force to try and break the bolt loose . when it came free , the ee's finger struck the end of a screw clamp on a hose .
ee bent down to pick up a tool that had fallen off of the work bench and pulled something in his back . he went to the doctor on 2/22/01 and was prescribed therapy .
ee was using a chain saw to cut a tree approx 18-20 '' in diameter . when the tree fell , a grapevine that was unseen in the top of the tree pulled a dead tree approx 6-8 '' in diameter down and struck ee , knocking him to the ground . when ee hit the ground , he fell on a rock that caused a laceration over right eye , requiring 7 stitches .
ee was working changing the cantinary shaft on unit 1 grate . there was a magnetic bas light on the wall . as work was progressing the light fell , swung by the cord and struck ee in the face .
employee was unloading coal in high wind conditions when ee received coal dust in left eye .
ee stated that while helping remove the atra jack from the miner , he felt pain in his groin . ( ee did not start missing work until 8/21/04 . )
employee was positioning his roof bolter to install bolts in the intersection of the # 2 entry . a section of rib material measuring approx 4 ' x 3 ' fell out of the corner of the intersection an d struck him from behind , causing him to strike his face and head on the bolter as he fell to the ground .
this roof fall was discovered in the 3a submain # 2 entry xc 11 & 12 .
on tuesday 2/14 around 7:10 am ee was rolling up a 24 inch wide conveyor belt when ee slipped and fell , injuring lower back . this incident was not reported until wednesday 2/15 by text messaging supervisor at 2:27 am . supervisor called and informed me about the incident .
ee has had two incidents of a stomach muscle strain from shoveling . he needs a small surgical repair done to this herniated muscle .
fall happened on 160 break on north mains section one break outby spad # 2090. fall was 1500 ' from the face , approx . 30'l , 20'w , 6 ' to 8 ' thick . bolted with 4 ' fully grouted bolts and 6 ' torque tension bolts . no one was injured and no air ways were affected .
ee was lifting a rock out of the jaw and pulled a muscle in his groin .
employee was attempting to unplug preheater tower using a cardox system . system discharged prematurely burning ee on the chest , neck , and arms . he sustained 1st degree burns to the majority of the affected area and 6 % was 2nd degree burns .
was attempting to disconnect a positive battery lead from batteries of locomotive . he was using a pair of channel locks and they got against the battery case causing arc . he suffered a burn on his right hand & 2 fingers of his rt . hand .
ee was driving the loader on 12-22-03 for eight hours each day . he felt a sharp pain on his right side under his rib cage and down his front right leg . ee went to the emergency room on 12-23-0 3 .
the employee was pushing an electrical motor off of an elevated platform . the employee was squatted down pushing the motor through an accessway in the handrails below a safety chain . it appears that when the motor rolled off it caught on the employee's gloves or himself and pulled him off the platform . he fell approximately 15 ft. to the ground .
employee was preparing to mount a cutting edge on a fel . the cutting edges were shipped on a palet stacked three high . employee was sliding the top cutting edge off of the stack . his finger was caught between the two cutting edges . the cutting edges weigh approx . 350 lbs . apiece . employee sustained a cut that required stitched and a broken finger . both were to the same finger .
employee was tearing down flypads in the # 7 entry 50'outby spad number 10757 to move to a new location as he was pulling on the flypads , the flyboard broke allowing a loose piece of drawrock that was above the flyboard to fall onto the ground hitting him on the left ankle resulting in a chipped bone .
ee was located on the off side of the belt take-up getting ready to pull belt slack in when a piece of coal rib broke loose & fell out striking him on the right ankle & foot . the material meas ured 5 ' x 14 '' x 18 '' .
roof fall occurred in the 4b recovery area at the 4 + 03 spad location . the fall affected the following cross cuts 1 to 2 , 2 to 3 , and 3 to 4 .
the no . 1 phase on the east motor of the nordberg hoist went bad . maintenance had to braze the bus bar to get it back in working condition . tested and returned to working condition the following day 2nd shift .
slipped and fell on metal decking on washplant .
two employees were lifting a small piece of conveyor belt . after the lift ee said he felt a pain in his back . he waited till 10-30-06 to report the injury . he was taken to hospital and put on restricted duty - sprained ligament .
a roof fall occurred in the supply road of the 2nd main west - old , # 1 unit , no injuries or disruptions to ventilation . the fall was approx 82 ' long , 18 wide , 8 ' high . the fall was discovered at approx 12 : pm at xc79 spad 53 + 46 .
employee was assisting washing off cathodes in the tankhouse .
ee stated that he was walking back toward the miner after conducting an air reading when he slipped on a rock and fell into the gear case of the miner . he was treated at mar hospital for a laceration to the forehead requiring 7 stitches . ee returned to work on the next shift at full duty .
an unplanned roof fall occurred outby the face of # 6 entry on section 2 , just inby survey spad # 21009. the fall measured approximately : 45 to 50 ft in length , 16 ft width , and 6 to 8 ft in height .
ee was underneath 50 ton haul truck changing transmission filters . upon exiting he complained of pain in right knee . ee did not requested medical attention until 12/9/05 and return to work with no lost time . coninued with dr follow-ups . dr has no requested physical therapy treatments beginning 1/4/06 .
bagging hydrated lime bag blew off spout after bag clamp did not engage spraying employee with lime and resulting of some lime into eyes . employee had on all ppe . eyes were flushed out and employee was taken to berkshire occupational health .
while working on fletcher roof bolter that was parked in the enter section , a piece of draw rock fell between the roof bolts striking ee on his head & shoulder
employee was operating shuttle car . car ran overa hole in roadway and bounced employee into car canopy and against frame .
ee was working moving oxygen bottles he was instructred to get help unloading the bottles . apparently he lifted bottles himself
had rock fall one break inby spad # 1334 in # 2 entry on 004 section . fall approx 6-10 ' thick x 40 ' long x 18 ' wide . area was bolted with 6 ' resin bolts & 12 ' rope bolt over 14 ' - 16 ' . area cribbed off on all sides with crib block . fall was inspected by msha inspectors on 6/13/07 .
ee was using loader to scrape mud off road . the loader bucket caught on a hidden rock and threw the operator into the windshield .
working on plant on a very windy day , employee thought by day's end that dust had blown into his eyes . according to doctor he had minor uv burns to eyes and was told to wear patches at night . he did not miss any time . he was helping welder on plant but was not doing the welding . he was wearing eye protection .
employee was driving getman scaler # 1 out of upper dolomite area of mine # 4 , ran over rock or edge of roadway , causing cab to rock upwards quickly . employee hit top of forehead on light attached to cab frame . cut to forehead requiring 6 stitches . employee was wearing hardhat and seat belt at the time of the accident .
employee was walking past the sw side of feed silo # 2 to take a routine boiler water sample when he slipped and fell . employee was taken for x-rays where it was determined that he had single broken rib on the left side .
on friday , july 30 , 2004 , a roof fall was discovered at the bottom of the slope at a preexisting overcast on the main line . the fall measured 4 ' wide x 8 ' long x 15 ' high . the fall has been inspected by msha inspector .
ee was backing up a scoop and hit his head on a low spot in roof . he has pulled muscles in neck .
employee was inside the cement kiln shroud cleaning the mid-kiln area during shutdown . he was attached to a rope and he lost his footing as he climbed out of the shroud at break . as he fell @ 4 feet , he tried to catch himself and struck his left wrist on the metal shroud and bent his wrist backward . he did not see dr until 12/2/03 & was put on restricted duty until he saw specialis
employee was repairing an articuiated dump truck . the hood fell , striking his leg above the knee .
employee and two co-workers were in the process of lowering a water line pipe to the ground . ee was using a drill steel to release the pipe from the chain when an s-hook failed , letting the pipe fall . the drill steel was knocked out of employee's hand and it whipped around and struck employee on the forehead .
repairs to dust collector-dust entered eyes , sent to eye dr's l/eye lid swollen adn red .
injured was walking by pc when he tripped over the 1 1/2 '' waterline to the cm . when he fell he put his arms out to broke his fall when he came down he felt pain in his wrist .
roof fall ( 7000-1-008-04 ) : main south seals , between # 1 & # 2 seals . dimensions : h:6.5 ' , w : 19 ' , l:60 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in roof . roof support : 6'conventional bolts .
ee picked up a draw head for a railroad car narrow gauge & strained his back & shoulder he cont 'd to work at his reg job title ( train eng & brakeman ) and continues doing so to this day . he hasn't lost any time . this ee also has extreme problems with diabetes . an mri has reveled a possible bulge from a disc . the plan is to attach this problem with steriods & surgery is possible
a roof fall was discovered at spad 310 in the # 3 entry at 9:55 pm during a preshift examination . the fall was appx . 20 feet long x 16 feet wide x 8 feet high . the fall did not affect miners , ventilation nor equipment .
4000-259 i drift . ee was cutting his haul back cable on slusher bucket 8 ' from face , pulled cable tight on top of bucket to get it into cutter on top of bucket . held cutter w/left hand and hit cable cutter with sledge hammer in right hand . after hitting the cutter 5-6 times , missed cable cutter , hitting his left hand smashing left ringer finger . 3-sutures .
ee moving track hoe in quarry . parked hoe . getting out , slipped off track . fell on right side .
ee was using an impact wrench to loosen bolts when he felt something in his right eye medical treament was sought & he was treated for foreignbody he was placed on 1 day restricted duty
hoist down 12:30 pm . the grass rope came through cross-head . crosshead dropped onto chairs , damaging ears of cross head . the damaged cross head was replaced and extreamous fiber rope had been removed from shaft . hoist restarted 9:30 am on 4/5/00 .
employee was attempting to mount the 777d rock truck . he placed his lunch box on the bumper , then climbed to the bumper . when he tried to place his lunch box on the catwalk . he dropped his bu cket . while attepting to catch the lunch box , he slipped and fell to the ground .
intersection at spad # 38 fell , 6 ' high 16 ' wide and 25 ' long , per map attached .
ee strained his shoulder while placing rails on a retaining wall . ee did not seek medical attention until 2 february 2004 and began working restricted duty on 3 february 2004 .
employee was exiting finish mill # 1. as he stepped down onto platform he twisted his knee . employee who is a supervisor went to company doctor who released him for work , follow up showed torn medial meniscas in right knee . employee had surgery on 11/02/2006 making this a reportable lost time accident
employee was standing on the marland c-conn gearbox . he was handing another employee a hammer when he lost his footing and fell about 49 inches , landing on the heel of his left foot . he sustained a fracture to his left heel bone .
ee was attempting to unstop the clean coal sampler . he did not disconnect the power to the secondary cutter on the sampler . yis forehead came in contact with the sweep arm causing a laceration that required stitches .
climbing up the ladder to cab on the terex t-40 haul truck , missed a step while climbing and slid down the ladder to the ground . was about 1-2 feet up when he slid down the ladder .
roof fall found outby 2 right panel in the # 9 entry of the mains . fall in the intersection between spad nos . 4219 and 4220. fall is approx 15'wide , 20'long and 7'thick . no injuries . had been c ribbed off and made safe .
ee was lifting belts structure and hurt lower back .
the man walked between 2 scoops a coworker moved the 1 scoop & pinched the ee's right leg between the moving one & the sationary one
striking tooth retainer with a hammer to secure tooth on 988b loader bucket . a metal sliver broke off of tooth striking him in lower left front of neck . required minor first aid to stop bleeding . he finished shift and went to doctor , x-ray shows metal inbedded in muscle . doctor chose to not remove
injured was riding in the rear facing seat of a diesel mantrip . mantrip went around a switch and derailed . when the mantrip derailed and struck the rib , the injured's momentum drove his left kidney area into the scsr . injured suffered a briused kidney , ribs and back , mantrip was being operated at an excessive speed .
unintentional roof fall 2nd main east return # 10 entry 63 crosscut 25'long x 20'w x 8 ' high . 6 ' and 8 ' tr bolts and props . it will be cleaned up .
employee was adjusting rolls on crusher unit with a cat bar . the cat bar slipped causing ee to hit his elbow on iron resulting in injury .
while working on a komatsu 475 bulldozer to remove rock that was wedged between blade and front structure , ee was putting up his 9000lb crane and snatch block , slipped on a rock and fell with snatch block and hurt his lower back .
injured was assisting in hanging a miner cable . ee felt pain and a pop in right shoulder .
original incident occurred on 8/14/2012 , when employee bumped head on a filter trough and was treated for first aid , as well as a personal preexisting condition . on 3/18/2013 , the site medical and ehs were notified that surgery had been performed on 3/6/2013 and was being covered by wc .
a fall of the roof occurred on # 4 unit , 6th ne panel # 2 entry at spad # 38550 . 80 ' outby the face in the last open crosscut . no personal equipment or ventilation were affected . the fall was 70'long , 19'wide & 6'thick .
the man was preparing to drill bolt hole in last row of bolts . when he pushed the drill steel against the roof a piece of rock 2 '' thick 18 '' x 18 '' broke loose and fell striking his left hand whi ch cut his middle , ring and pinky finger .
ee lacerated the little finger on right hand while attempting to pry open a sliding gate on a coal chute with a bar . hand contacted an electrical bracket , cutting finger . the wound required 4 sutures to close - the employee returned to full duty with no restrictions .
bent over to pick up 50 lb bags of material when he felt sharp pain in lower back . employee explained that he did roll the bag to him , bent his kness to pick up up bag and kept bag close to hi s body as he was straightening his knees he felta sharp pain in his lower back .
ee was profiling the 1 south belt structure using a chain hoist that was hooked into the chain that the belt was hanging from . the ee was standing on the belt which was 60 '' off the bottom , when the chain hoist came loose , causing the ee to lose his balance and fall from the belt to the mine floor .
injured had dsended the steps of the haul truck , turned and wedding ring caught on step grading causing flesh to be torn under ring .
ee just stepped up onto a tractor & felt something pop in his right knee . this was originally considered 1st aid , but after the knee continued to bother him he went in for a follow-up . it was decided to scope the knee and the doctor found and repaired a torn meniscus on 4/25/06 .
employee was diagnosed with a bilateral sensorineural hearing loss .
ee was carrying a ladder across the parking area when he slipped on the ice , causing him to fall and twist his ankle . he went to have surgery on his ankle 4-11-07 , this is the date lost time will start .
employee was laying on his right side in an awkward position with his arms extended out , hand tightening electrical pipe conduit together . he began experiencing pain and discomfort in his righ t upper back and shoulder .
ee was moving steel and tossed a piece . the beam hit some grating and bounced back , landing on his foot it broke 2 toes and lacerated the top of his foot .
fall approx . 22'long x 18'wide x 6'high . no injuries , no equipment involved , no blockage of ventilation or escapeway . will not be cleaned up- breakered off & dangered . marked on map .
ee slipped on walk area near the down hill belt tail piece and sprained his ankle .
ee had been working on the 16g cat grader , when he was finished and was climbing down the ladder he slipped off of the steps and landed on his left shoulder .
job was rained out . employee was cleaning up site to leave when he stepped on 3/4 '' conduit and fell . his ( r ) elbow struck concrete foundation jamming his ( r ) shoulder . employee was taken off work by dr. on 8/7/06 and has not returned .
employee was putting up a roof bolt when ee mashed ee's right pinkie ( little ) finger between a roof bolt and pot of the roof bolter . on 08/11/2017 ee worked 5.5 hours then left to go to the doctor for a follow-up on ee's finger , at which time the doctor took ee off work due to a minimal distal fracture on the tip of ee's right little finger . ee began missing work as of 08/12/2017 .
a fall of the roof occurred on # 4 unit , # 2 entry , 60 feet outby spad # 30189 , 180 feet outby the dumping point , 3rd mb panel , no ventilation , equipment or personnel were affected . the fall was 100 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' .
employee began missing work from an injury that occurred on 1/24/2008 . he was rockdust and felt pain in lower back .
while using a utility knife to cut a zip tie off an extension cord , the knife slipped and cut the employee's left index finger . he recieved 5 stitches and was released to regular duty .
ee was bolting , when a small rock fell off the rib . he stepped back & tripped on another rock & fell . he strained the left side of his back he retd in a restricted capacity
ee sprained l. shoulder while pushing material down chute . ee was utilizing a pry bar to free plugged material in stone chute . ee completed his shift , shoulder felt worse at home so he went to dr. ee reported to work the next day .
employee fell from back of pickup onto brick which ee was unloading . landed on forearm/elbow jamming shoulder .
a roof fall occured between # 2 + # 3 entry of the 2nd mine @ survey station 20 + 30. the fall measured 45 ' long x 18 ' wide x 10 ' thick . the area had been supported with 6 ' fully grouted resin bolts and 9 ' double locks . all approaches have been timbered
ee stated he was setting timbers on the pillar section , piece of rock fell , striking him on leg . went to dr. 11-10-02 , went back next day . started losing time on 11-25-02 .
injured employee was reaching to remove a feeder flight that was lying between a portapower and slope belt brake . another employee released the pressure on the portapower causing the feeder flight to fall , strike the injured employee on his right hand and left foot , resulting in fractures to his hand and foot .
ee was pushing rocks forward on the conveyor belt leading to the guillotine . as he pushed , one of the rocks twisted and fell off the conveyor onto his foot . he was wearing his foot guard .
while putting up tins on the roof to direct water drippers . came in contact with water that had pebale lime quicklime in it must of not had my prain pants taped tight enought to boots . water l eaker in causing burns .
10/15/2015- employee reported a bruised tail bone to safety . said he did it on 10/07/2015 . while leaning on one knee on the ground , employee was torqueing bolts on a steel block . employees fell back onto another steel block , bruising tail bone . he compared the initial injury to hitting his funny bone so he didn't report it . had x-rays done to very it is bruised only .
employee was dismounting from dozer and slipped on the wet ground and heard a popping noise in right knee . ee continued to work with no restrictions . surgery was scheduled for a torn meniscus which was repaired on 09/21/18 .
ee was attempting to load supplys onto a roof bolter when he picked up pin board he strained his back .
2 employees were welding at same time working on reclaim hopper . apparently ee was too close & rec 'd flash burns to both eyes . ee was taken to salem er & prescribed eye drops & an anti inflamatory prescription .
employee was conducting shelby tube sampling on tailings using hydraulic ram set . while taping cap to sample tube , the sampler slipped from chucks lacerating and fracturing the tip of the right number 4 finger . full release , no days lost . employee is from canada and has valid tn-1 status . ( no social security number )
ee was hanging miner cable with section boss when he stepped in a low spot in the bottom causing him to twist his left knee .
ee was working on a screw conveyor , using a 3 ' pry bar , when he pulled back on the pry bar it came loose and struck him in the mouth , resulting in sutured lip .
while retrieving a sample ground silica from the process entered the employee's eyes . safety glasses and all other ppe was being worn . eyes were flushed and no further injury noted . a prescription medication was given to prevent infection .
on august 6 , 2007 at 2:50 am a bounce/outburst occurred at the crandall canyon mine . it affected the current mining location in the south barrier of west mains extending outby to approx . x/c 119. the outburst affected all 4 entries and rescue operations were begun immediately . rescue operations to reach the miners were unsuccessful .
ee was pulling guzzler hose around drag chain when the hose sucked up a lot of material causing the hose to ship & smash his wrist against drag chain cover .
another ee was driving a kawasaki k2110-ii loader and was backing up when inj ee drove his s10 pickup behind the loader . the impact cause immediate death to the employee . driver of the l oader was not injured .
ee was working off a 6 '' step ladder he slipped off the 2nd step landing on his left wrist
ee was sliding a rock breaker part on a pallet from the backhoe bucket into the bed of a pickup truck . the board on the pallet came off causing the ee to lose his balance and fall backwards . h e attempted to break his fall which resulted in the majority of his body weight on his right arm and wrist .
injured was working on the east side of the grate , below recoup duct , on dampers in the pelletizer . injured stepped off of a step approx . 3-4 feet and landed on a water hose twisting his right ankle . injured heard a pop .
ee was standing in safety sled while scoop was going by in big block . when scoop went by him the canopy hit his left hand . started losing time 9/7/02 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on e mains in the no 5 entry at spad 8179. the fall measured 18 ft wide by 40 ft long by 14 ft high .
haul truck operator had just received the first dipper load in the truck , and radioed the shovel operator to stop , ee's neck hurt . ee was taken to the er and taken off work for 2 shifts . ee called in after the 2 shifts , saw ee's pcp , taken off until 8/29 . saw ee's pcp , and taken off another two weeks . currently ongoing .
associate sought medical treatment for sore wrist . no report of injugy was filed prior to the dr appt .
ee was going to repair a feeder and when he stepped up to it he stepped in a hole and pulled something in his back .
7 mains 2 , 29 block , 8 entry , mmu 002 , spad # 16525. support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , cribs , pans , dywidag truss bolts , straps , 6-12 ' . 17 ' wide x 29 ' long x 8 ' high . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
ee alleges he was trying to get 3 wheeler unstuck & strained too much on a bar he was using to pry with . alleges strain to stomach , low back & left groin area .
employee was pushing a hydralic jack through the mud to position it under the rear of a haul truck . employee slipped and felt a strain in his lower back after falling . medical treatment was sought on 1/31/05 and he taken off work .
we were reversing feeder and the employee bumpedthe switch with his back while having his hand on the v-belts . ring finger on right hand was caught between belt and pulley cutting his finger .
ee was on the upper workdeck as forms were beingmoved up and he stepped in the slot in the grating where the deck support cable comes through and turned his left ankle . the dr. advised no stai rs no weight bearing until 12-11-02 then light weight bearing 12-23-02. next visit 12-20-02
employee was moving a 4 inch waterline from a flatcar to a scoop bucket . one end of the pipe fell off the car and when it hit the mine floor it bounced causing his left hand to be mashed against a sharp piece on the scoop ram .
ee reported pain in her rt upper extremity that she claims began in march 2004. she was examined by the authorized provider and treated with physical therapy , ice therapy and anti-inflammatory meds .
employee mentioned that he felt dizzy & lightheaded & a co-worker told him to sit down in the storage dumpster . ee went to the break room where it was warmer , at this time ee was conscious & talking . at approx . 9 am co-worker saw ee having a seizure , his face was red & he appeared to not be breating . massive heart attack .
employee was installing a suction hose on a 6 '' water pump in the wright branch pit in d4 area when he experienced pain in his lower back on left side . he was taken to etmc henderson where he was diagnosed with a back muscle strain . he was instructed by the doctor not to work the next day .
employee was trapped in t-2 elevator traveling at the balling floor level . he was trapped for approximately 50 minutes . msha was contacted at about 11:15 am . no injuries occurred .
internal audit found need to report an amended restricted days . ee was repairing bottom dump door on railcar when the hinge broke . ee left hand was caught between door and ground .
ee was operating the nut runner & a co-worker was using a 8 lb . sledgehammer on the stem of the valve . the co-worker struck the stem and the sledge hammer bounced off & struck ee on the top of his right hand . ee's hand was caught between the sledge hammer head & the nut runners trigger . ee was treated for a contusion . ee placed on restricted duty on 08/12/12 .
employee loosened the radiator cap on lhd , hot water and steam was released , resulting in burns to his left hand and forearm .
employee was in the process of setting an i beamwhen he experienced pain in neck and lower rightback , employee did not miss any work , however , he did see a chiropractor , therefore making this a medical report .
fuel truck # k9079 caught on fire on top of hill at the halls creek mine on 2nd shift , operator was o.k . and no one was injured . calls were made to msha and state agencies informing them of the situation . ( see attached sheet )
ee was attempting to straigten a steel guard when a weld broke loose and cut his right index finger the length of the finger , requiring stitches .
first talked to me 1/12/01 of problem then afterworking on jaw & running equipment on 2/22/o1 told me that hand & arm & shoulder gave him trouble all weekend see dr on 2/27/01
while changing the cutting edge on a rubbertire dozer , the operator received a laceration to his left hand .
ee fractured his left hand after slipping and falling at foot level and trying to catch himself with his left hand . ee went to the doctor on 11/15/05 .
employee was evaluated by the company dr. and diagnosed with a sts ( standard threshold shift ) . this diagnosis has not been determined as a work related hearing loss .
employee alleges right knee pain in the parking lot prior to the start of a 12 hr night shift . employee was standing outside of his personal vehicle , leaned in to vehicle to grab his lunch and felt a `` pop '' in his right knee . he was evalauted by a physican , released with restrictions and completed his remaining shift . on 1/23 he was evaluated by a specalists and taken off of work .
employee was lifting a belt top frame off of his golf cart , he felt pain in his back as he was lifting . at the request of msha , modified to 7 days before returned to work .
ee was changing feed chute rubber skirting . while repositioning himself , ee grabbbed skirting clamp that was hanging , knocked it down on his hand , breaking the tip of his finger .
ee was up on the ladder of 992 loader servicing it and raised up and hit head on the boom . ee then fell over on the fuel truck
ee was dismounting a haul truck . when he stepped to the ground from the last step of the ladder he stepped on a rock and turned his ankle .
at apporox . 2:15 a.m. the elevator began having problems while running in automatic . ( would run in manual mode ) . brought men outside - called vendor for repairs .
individual was struck on the forearm by a wrench which fell out of the preheater building .
ee was repairing a broken cable on bulk loading chute . when he went to lower the chute , he hit the wrong button and raised the chute instead . his right hand was caught in the cable resulting in laceration and fracture to the right index finger . he received treatment at er .
ee was assisting in setting a belt head . the belt head was raised using a track jack . ee was placing a half header between the timber and crib . ee raised the timber with one hand while sliding the half header between the timber and crib with the other hand . the track jack tipped over causing the belt head to sit down on blocking material pinning ee fingers on both hands .
ee had the starter hole drilled & the extension steel connected . he was raising the head of the roof bolt machine to insert the extension steel in the chuck . the extension steel caught the sid e of the chuck causing the steel to bend & break . it snapped back and struck his left thumb , fracturing it .
roof fall 2 brks left of spad # 15627 on 5 north belt brk # 6. fall was 20 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' thick in track entry . top is lamitated sandstone bolted with 4'glue fully grouted . fall is approx 3000 ft f rom section and will be cleaned up .
during kiln shutdown , employee was supervising contract labor and making an inspection of the kiln chain system repair . he was inside the rotary kiln and walking through the 4 start chain syst em when he stepped on a chain . it rolled over , causing his right foot to slip off of it . his right knee twisted as his foot landed on other chain , causing strain of his right knee .
employee was working on the primary , ee foot was over the kick plate on man lift , other employee lifted the basket pinning foot between kick plate and belt
while removing a wheeled dumpster by hand he ran into a steel beam and the momentum of the dumpster fractured his wrist .
employee states while he was installing drive belts on the lw crusher , his right thumb was caught between the belt and pulley causing a crushing and laceration injury to his right thumb . the wound required several stitches .
ee was assisting the removal of structure to gain proccess to a fall that occurred off of the # 1 section . while loading the top structure . he lost his balance and fell against a piece of struc ture . he continued working and completed an accident report on the end of his shift .
while removing lead steel from edd 226 drill ee s forearm was caught between the carousel and the hot end of the steel when he was putting on a 1/2 '' chain around the lead steel .
on 3/23/02 the injured came to the mine with an excuse from the chiropractor . he stated that his back was hurting and he didn't know how he hurt it . he said he had an exciting weekend . on 3-28 -02 , he stated that on 3-23-02 toward the end ofhis shift his back started hurting . he knew he was going to be off a day so he didn't say anything about it . he didn't know how he was hurt .
ee was cleaning under a conveyor when his knee popped .
ee was shoveling belt line when he pulled a muscle in his back .
roof fall in the # 7 entry of the # 4 panel off of blue tick mains at spad # 1632. the fall is 4000 ' from an active section . no airways or passages is blocked and no injuries . roof fall is 40'x20'x5 ' .
we were using a crib block to block open the tailgate of a mack mud truck so we could clean mud from around tailgate , as we were placing crib block against tailgate , crib block slipped & struck the right wrist of injured employee . he did not want to see a dr. at that time but later on the 24th he went to a dr .
ee was operating a shuttle car and hit a hole in the roadway # 2 entry .
employe drove his haul truck througha v ery rough road , from a dirt shovel to a dirt dump and his seat bottomed ot and his back started hurting . he worked until 12-6-00 saw dr he receive dmed ication received a hernated disc per mri results .
dumping small dumpster and levers caught rt thumb .
ee was lifting a small piece of sheet metal ( 2'2 '' x 4'x 1/2 '' ) on a table , assisted by another ee . ee picked up his end of metal almost waist high and stopped . ee felt light headed and asked to sit down . ee was taken by ambulance and was unable to return to work .
accidentally placed finger between froth cell paddle and eurethane block after pin came out of one end of paddle .
ee received flash burns to eyes while arc gouging welds . ee was wearing proper ppe on eyes . it is suspected that reflections of the arc caused the condition . ee was sent to the dr. and diagno sed w/ultraviolet keratitis & received injectionand prescription of tetracaine .
ee was driving a 785 rock truck , hauling overburden from a 5230 cat shovel . while being loaded by the shovel a rock fell off the right side of the bucket & landed on the tail board of the rock truck causing the operator to get `` bounced '' in his seat .
ee had a piece of rock between the padding of his knee pads and his knee ee did not know the rode was there and went down on his knee with the weight of his body and hurt his knee .
employee was struck on the head and hurt his neck while in an open mantrip .
ee was unable to work due to back pain . he was handling materials on the 020-0mmu . he was lifting a box of resin weighing 20-30 lbs . 1st day away from work 5-28-02 .
employee was exiting the restroom across the hall from the west training room when the door closed on his right foot , twisted his knee and he fell to the floor .
ee stated that while pulling off shuttle car cable , he felt a pain in his stomach .
ee was a passenger in a workhorse scooter when the driver was distracted by a spider hanging from above him . scooter swerved striking a barrier throwing the 2 individuals forward as the seat popped off upon impact . ee's leg/ankle was caught under the seat and was fractured .
a roof fall occurred in the longwall headgate entry approx 70 ' inby spad # 3087. the fall set down on the longwall headgate shields and approx 15 ' outby the shields on the stageloader . the fall measured approx . 20 ' wide , 19 ' long and 10 ' high . no one was injured in the fall .
while riding brookville mantrip to section , ee fell asleep & allowed his foot to dangle outside trip . his foot was caught between rib & trip resulting in a bruise to right foot . he was released to return to work but did not show & was reported waiting to see specialist . after talking to him on 5/29/09 , he said he had been under doctor's care & was receiving therapy & pain meds .
employee was to complete a preshift examination.he slipped on a rock and fell striking his knee.on 9/27/01 he sought medical attention and was placed on lost time status .
smashed thumb between ( 2 ) stones while palletizing stone .
ee was climbing onto d-9 dozer and slipped and twisted his right knee . ee had surgery on 1/4/07 .
ee was pulling on ratchet wrench when he felt discomfort in right shoulder .
employee was climbing down stairs from personnelcarrier . on the last step he slipped or tripped and fell 12-14 '' to the ground . the fall caused the employee to suffer torn tendons & ligaments to both knees .
ee sprain back while lifting gears and other scrap metals out of a container .
ee complained of pain in right leg and back . ee does not know what caused injury or what time it occurred .
employee was trying to pry a rock loose out of the crusher with a crpw bar , the crow bar came loose instead of rock hitting him in forehead , causing him to fall on ground . laceration from hair line in right upper to the mid forehead over right eye .
ee bent over to turn water faucet on , causing muscle spasm in lower back . ee has sustained prior spasms in back before which were not work related .
while stepping through a mandoor he tripped . thetop of his hard hat struck a brattice causing the hat to hit the bridge of his nose . x-rays showthe nose to be boken . no lost time .
this injury was to have occurred while this contract labor was supplying a bolter with bolting supplies and bolter operator moved the machine , ran over his foot . cause of this injury was lack of communication with other workers in area . compliance with rules/regs not a factor , mining equip/systems , or ppe a factor and job skills and miner proficiency may be a factor .
running to shut down conveyor to cone crusher heslipped & fell on debris that had been shot from
mantrip ride - driving the mantrip w/belt & belt material in ride . rock came out of top , hit his arm , dove out ride , twisted back , ride was covered up . # 1 belt
while removing metal guard from headdrive , employee mashed his pinky finger between guard and headdrive resulting in 2 cuts requiring 14 stitches .
employee went to check on crew installing pins in track pads . when he was 5 - 6 feet from the crew he felt a sting in his left cheek which began to bleed . a splinter of metal from the edge of the pin flange splintered off and enbedded into his cheek . this caused a 3/4 '' cut that required stitches .
ee was attempting to bring down 12c apron feeder which was hung up . because of problems with the poke holes at the rear of the feeder , he was working the poke holes at the front of the feeder . while standing on the chain guard on the east side of the feeder , he slipped and broke his chain guard ont he east side of the feeder , he slipped and broke his fall with his left arm . was eva
ee was driving water truck down the middle ramp . he ran over a bump in the ramp causing him to hit his head on the top of the cab . he hit the air conditioner there is a cut on his head . it too k 8 stitches to close .
several unplanned roof falls has occurred in the nos . 2,5,6,7 , and 8 intersections one crosscut inby survey spad no . 375 the mine is in ba status and no one working underground only weekly examinations being conducted . all access to the falls will be dangered off and cribs built to prevent entry of persons .
ee was removing a differential housing from a caterpillar 992g end loader . the housing fell , ee twisted his rt . ankle avoiding the falling housing .
employee alleges he struck his kneecap on a rung as he was ascending a ladder . at date of report he has been diagnosed as unable to return to work pending an mri and any recommended treatment .
ee was trying to adjust the air operatered feed gate in the pelleted tunnel when he hit the top of the valve causing it to close & catch his finger in it . this took the tip of his finger off . did not have air turned off to the air operated gate
ee was cutting a plastic tie with a utility knife . as he was cutting his knife slipped and struck him in the palm .
hauling stone from crusher to stockpile . turning at stockpile , and upset dumptruck .
worker was lifting 50 lb . bags of grout and strained back . refused medical treatment and resumed duties . over the next months the condition continued and eventually a doctor recommended surgery for herniated disc . surgery was done on 2/6/13 and he was immediately released back to work with restricted duties .
rail flipped back and struck ee on left lower leg .
ee was checking pump floats when he crossed the discharge line he stepped on a rock with his right foot and twisted his right knee . ee has been having injury treated and recieved an injection on 9/29/09 making this injury reportable .
employee was throwing a belt roller under the bottom belt during a belt move in j tailgate section and felt pain in his left groin . employee has continued to work but was diagnosed with a hernia on 10/5/2009 .
injured was putting a wrecked mantrip back on the track . injured was using a jack and bar to lift the mantrip . the jack slipped causing the jack bar to strike injured in the nose .
ee was unhooking the engine from the rail cars . he could not reach the air valve on the engine from the side he was on so he crawled up on the railcar hitch so he could get to the valve . when he did , he slipped . he used his right arm to catch himself . that is when he hurt his wrist .
on 2/11/13 , employee strained his lower back as he was attempting to lift the end of a vent tube into place in the # 2 entry of 21st west . ee reported the incident to his foreman and continued working all of his shifts until 2/25/13 , at which time he went to the dr. and was instructed to be off from work until a mri could be conducted and evaluated .
ee indicates that he came back to the maintanence shop at the end of his shift to clean up before leaving home . he had been working in fairly dusty area prior to this . he says he took off his safety glasses at his locker and believes that may have been when a particle fell into eye . he\dismissed it as not being a problem until next dmorning . dr. did not find anything released full
a methane ignition occured in the number 1 entry on the west main left section as the roof bolters was installating roof bolts . as the roof bolter went to tighten the roof bolt he saw a flame from around the roof bolt plate .
the employee was constructing a stopping at 59cc # 1 section between # 7 and # 8 entries . the area was 9 ' 3 '' high and 18 ' 8 '' wide . ee was standing on a ladder to place another block on the stopping . as ee placed the block , a section of rock measuring 24 '' x 13 '' x 1 '' fell out and struck ee on top of the right hand . the injury took 7 stitches to close .
bad top with wet weak thin layed laminated top . this area was heavily cribbed . heizmanns jacks and jacks with beams . we used longer bolts when developed . we used 4 and 6 foot bolts staggered pattern . some 8 ' bolts all resin fully grouted . the area was developed in jan. of 2004 and was 55 ft long , 20 ft wide , 6 ft high . 9000 feet from working face .
injured was stepping over safety chain with lt. hand balancing on chain , chain end released causing injured to fall to the ground . dr. saw ee on 4/9/03 and restricted injured .
ee fell to ground while descending steps located on counterweight on 988-f loader , in the act of refueling .
while ee was cleaning frozen material from a chute under the jaw , using a short prybar and hammer , he felt pain across his upper back . on 2-5 he sought medical attention and was returned to wo rk with restrictions . on 2-15 ee was releasedto full duty status .
mechanic & welder were in the jlg man basket removing a leveling cylinder pin . welder was repositioning the basket the machine was shut off & the boom started to settle resulting in the arm sliding forward . as the boom lowered it pinned the mechanic between the upper bucket & the back railing of the man basket resulting in an injury to the mech left ear . seen at er received sutures
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the no . 7 entry along the no . 7 belt line near spad # 02813. fall measured 20'l x 20'w x 48 '' h. ventilation was not affected and the fall area will not be reh abilitated . all entrances to the fall have been breakered off .
the employee stated he was moving rock off miner and pinched his finger ( left middle ) between rock and top . `` as requested by msha , this information is being submitted by brody mining , llc as a result of a part 50 audit for ppov '' .
employee was attempting to hang a light on the # 70 long wall shield using zip ties . while doing so ee was attempting to cut off the excess zip tie with a razor knife and slipped and cut the left hand . employee received stitches to close laceration .
ee was removing a lid from dust collector , slipped on pipes below his feet and twisted lower back .
employee was struck by a piece of drawrock and cut head and broke nose .
rock got caught in door of the # 25 bin ee was using shovel to knock rock loose . rock rolled down the shovel and hit him on the forearm .
ee was tightening bolts on a drive line and felt a sharp pain in right shoulder . seen at clinic and placed on restricted duty .
employee was loading parts when wing blew f/b into rt eye causing 2 scratches to retina . this occurred on mine property @ a machine shop where the parts were located .
employee was walking with a 50 lb . bag of anfo and ee's back went out .
the ee was running up 3 flights of stairs to getto the top of the plant . he had been working 6 days a week for 3 months setting up a new plant & running up 3 flights of stairs numerous times per day plus the stress of the new plant not running correctly .
roof fall has occurred at the # 43 xcut on the south mains `` a '' beltline . fall is approx . 25 ft l x 48 ft w by 8 ft h. the area was bolted with 8 ft install ii bolts & resin w/metal straps & wire screen . fall did not affect escapeways/vent . cause was failure of beam created by roof bolts . compliance with rules/regs , protective equip , mining equip/systems not a factor .
ee was putting up roof bolt , a rock 2 ' x 3 '' x 3 '' fell on arm and leg . injuries resulted in application of splint and sling . this report is being generated under protest to terminate citation # 9006081 .
on 12/24/04 ee was moving a power cable at 146 shovel & felt a muscle pull in his groin . ee cont 'd to perform regular job until 1/13/05 when ee was seen by a physician & diagnosed with a muscle strain in groin & placed on restricted duty .
unintentional roof fall 6th north panel # 4 entry between 112 and 113 crosscut . 35'l x 18'wide x 8'h mmu 051-0 proped on 3 sides cleaning fall up .
ee was using a cable come-along to lift a transmission . the cable crimp ( clamp ) failed , allowing the load and cable to slip . the sudden failure caused come-along frame to strike the ee in the face , lacerating chin . medical treatment for laceration , sutures to face at chin . ee was released for full duty at time of treatment .
employee was putting a torkshaft in on miner when he mashed his hand between metal .
emplyee started drlling rib holes and outburst occurred .
ee had turned onto the coppers fork haul road and was attempting to put the truck into a lower gear , when it rolled backward upon the bank and turned over in the haul road . ee recieved 6 stitches to his head and was released .
employee was filling d-8 dozer with fuel and ee slipped off the dozer track .
ee picked up a case of dynamite , walked to the face and when he bent over to set the box down he felt pain in his lower back . ee placed on restricted duty .
employee was attempting to close the door to the hvac trailer when she felt pain in her left shoulder . the employee was diagnosed with a shoulder strain and placed on restricted duty .
the ee reported while dragging a water hose back toits hanger in the south end of the mill basement near the rod mill discharge . he stepped into a 12 '' diameter by 6 '' deep hole in the concrete . he sprained his knee and fell to the floor on his left shouldert . the ee saw dr. on 10-12-01. the ee began physical therapy on 10-17-01 , two times a week for three weeks .
a piece of slate mine roof fell out between he last row of bolts and the atrs on the operator . the operator complained of pain in his neck , right shoulder and chest .
employee was in no.8 entry of 003 section resetting the tram breaker of the rcm . a rib roll approx . 42 '' x 16 '' x 12 '' pinned him against the miner , injuring his shoulder .
roof fall occurred & found on wet mains , # 4 entry , # 16 crosscut . fall material made up of laminated rock & clay & clay vein . 9 ' h x 20 ' l x 25'w . fell in crosscut extending into the entry . no injuries & no equipment damage . immediate notification to msha and wv hot line numbers .
had roof fall in return entry # 2 at brk 10-11 inby spad # 39. fall was approx 6'h x 18'w x 50'l . fall occurred in a cribbed area . area has been completely cribbed and dangered off .
injured worker attempted to disconnect and remove 2 30 ' sections of 8 '' dia alluminum irrigation piping , to allow a dozer to pass through area . on the second section of pipe , one of the joints were stuck . the iw lifted the free end , placed it in a headlock position with his right arm and moved side to side while pushing away from the stuck joint . suffered a hernia .
while working on loader , replacing step ; removing bolt & step , assembly pivited ; striking l. finger . diagnosed 5/10/05 , fracture .
employee stated that he was hooking up hyd hoses to chain saw and a piece of draw rock fell , striking him on his left hand causing a laceration .
a roof fall occurred in our west main section ( mmu 014-0 ) in the # 5 entry . the fall is at spad 65+65 brattice 61 approximately 1000 ' outby the face . it measures approximately 20 ' long , 35 ' wide and 7 ' to 8 ' high .
employee was using a spad gun to hang a piece of curtain , a small piece of rock broke off roof , fell and struck ee on upper lip .
employee had cut a hole in top of a hyd . oil can so he could pour additional oil in the can as it fills machines without stopping . the can started to fall over , he tried to catch the can and cut his index and middle finger . the lacerations had to be closed with sutures .
while ee was tightening bolt on pump with wrench , wrench slipped , ee lost his balance and fell backwards .
employee was stepping down from his water truck onto the ground , when his leg slipped and he twisted his r ankle
employee was walking across a roof area after obtaining a clinker sample and slipped on a wet surface that also had small clinker particles on it . he fell and hit his right shoulder . the emplo yee did not seek medical attention until december 4 , 2001 .
ee stated he was pulling rock dust hose when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . ee stated he has continued to have pain in his rt shoulder & now it has migrated up in his neck . this has bee n ongoing for several years . ee's 1st work day lost occurred on 2/16/01 .
employee was placing a pipe at the breaker - rubber flap caught on pipe flipping up causing debri to enter eyes
employee was working on the longwall face as a longwall helper . a piece of coal came from the longwall face and struck him on the face , causing a laceration that required stitches , making this accident reportable .
employee was tightening down bearing caps with an air impact , dirt blew up from the table he was working on and got into his eye . he was evaluated by an opthalmologist , the fb was removed and he was given prescription eye medications .
employee stated that while cleaning # 9 south scrubber with a sledge hammer ee struck left elbow on a beam support . employee was given light duty by a physician .
a rock fall was found in the # 1 mains , number 8 entry approximately one break outby spad number 124. the fall was in the return entry and is not blocking the escape or hindering air flow . the fall is approximately 70 feet long by 20 feet wide by 5 feet high .
ee was working on a telephone line , and cut his left hand.this required six stitches .
4000 cone was packed tight with crused rock . ee entered from underneath cone to free material , when material came down on top of ee . he was smothered and confined for one hour til he was released .
reportable only due to stitches : employee was cutting rockdust pipe and the locking device on the knife failed and he cut his finger .
employee was holding a nut & washer in place , while putting cutting edges on the 27 rubber tire . employee accidently hit the trigger on the impact gun and smashed his pointing finger and his middle finger on his left hand .
a non-injury roof fall occurred on the # 3 belt conveyor on northwest mains at survey station # 546. the fall measured approximately 20 feet wide by 5 feet thick by 50 feet in length . a roof fall clean up plan has been submitted to msha and has been approved for clean up of the fall . this fall was immediately reported to msha . no person ( s ) were involved in the fall .
the employee , assisted by another employee , was moving a railcar using a railcar puller . as the employees were in the process of removing the car puller hook from the railcar , the injured employee's left hand/finger became trapped , causing a fracture and lacerations .
after 5a conveyor stalled , employee's left indexfinger was pinched while checking if the drive motor had locked down .
ee and a co-worker were replacing a secondary rotor in a mixer . ee lost grip on the shaft while bringing it to an upright position , allowing the rotor to fall . ee pinkie finger on left hand was caught between the flange on the rotor and rotor tool on the primary rotor . ee recieved an open fracture at the first finger joint
roof fall on 8e belt 1/2 break inby spad # 29184. fall was approx 8 ' high 20 ' wide and 65 ' long . bolted with 4 ' glue bolts and will be cleaned up . fall id approx 2600 ft from # 004 section .
ee using a pry bar to line a piece of steel in a lather , the bar slipped and cut ee's left hand .
ee states that while taking the end cap off of the 140-d mag . separator to clean out material buildup using a pipe wrench , the cap broke free and ee struck his left elbow on the corner of the 140-d. mag separator pan . this became reportable on august 8 when ee sought medical treatment for infected left elbow .
ee's back became sore after operating haul trk on rough roads
a continuation of a fall that was reported on 8/25/2008 was discovered at 11:30am on 12/17/10 . the fall was located between spad # 133 and # 134 between # 2 and # 3 entries on the # 1 southwest panel at break 19. the fall measured approximately 18 ' wide x 60 ' long x 7'-8 ' high .
the secondary return chute was plugged with a big rock . the employee was using a 3 lb hammer to break the rock outside of chute . he quit and was digging out with his hand and i was on the other side of the chute digging rocks out . he picked up the hammer and swung not knowing i had a hold of the rock he was going to hit and smashed the middle finger of the right hand .
employee was clearing bridging wet aluminum trihydrate material from bucket elevator inlet chute with a shovel . the area was restricted access with barricade and signage . shovel got caught to rotating buckets of elevator causing fingers to pinch between the shovel handle and inlet chute . ee received treatment from hospital er for finger closed fracture and nail avulsion .
while removing a pin from an addcar with his right hand , he dropped the pin on his left thumb crushing his thumb .
a co-worker was cutting tire brackets off of the lower fairlead on dragline 28. ee was holding the plate so it would not fall . once cut , he put it down . he lost his hold ; it slipped and smashed his fingers . the rough edge of the plate caught his glove & prevented him from getting his hand free . sutures to ring & middle fingers ; fracture to tip of ring finger . aggravated a hernia .
ee had a horizontal door on the domatsu backhoe fall on his forearm .
retracking beams using hammer , hammer missed barand hit fingers on right hand .
ee from trucking company was picking up ag lime in a extended open dump body truck . he was standing on a ladder at the front of the dump body . as he was directing the loader operator where to dump the third of 4 buckets in the middle of thetruck , the bucket came in contact with the side rail and rocked the dump body . the ee rocked back then jumped off . he injured his shoulder .
ee fell 3-4 feet off ladder landing on his feet . he said he hurt his knee but did not think the injury amounted to anything so did not report it . six days later he developed a rash on his back . when he went to the doctor he said he hurt his knee . he was diagnosed with shingles and the ee said the dr told him it was caused by his knee injury . the knee injury didn't keep him off wor
ee stepped over a curb onto a portable stand and slipped on the stand steps as he was taken a sample at building 450. on sept 19 , ehs office received a facsimite copy stating the ee had receiv ed prescription medicaiton from the local medical clinic . ee continues to work .
received a cwp claim for employee .
ee was preparing to set up his machine to start a cut in # 1l . he was standing beside the miner head examining the roof conditions inby the miner . a piece of rock fell out between the bolts above the head of miner . the rock struck the head & flipped off striking the employee in the shoulder . he was taken to the hospital for x-rays . the x-rays were negative for broken bones .
welder was using a dye grinder to clean up a weld when he started feeling something in his left eye . the employee washed out the eye with a saline solution for 5 minutes and still had the same feeling . the employee stated that he was wearing full ppe , including a face shield .
while roof bolting a rock fell and struck the hard hat of the ee , pushing hat onto ee's glasses , which caused glasses to lacerate ee's nose .
ee was fatigued from performing normal job assignments . he came down from the plant to get his water bottle and steadied himself against the super sack bagger support leg . he felt dizzy , passed out , and awoke on the floor with a laceration on his knee . he lacerated his knee on the scale frame and was taken to the er where he received 5 stitches
the employee slipped on a sidewalk , striking his elbow . an initial medical examination showed no injuries and he was only given work restrictions for the remainder of the day . months later , pain started in his shoulder . an mri in july 2014 showed ac degeneration and tendonitis in the right shoulder .
on 5/2/06 a fall of ground occured in ue-162m intersection the ground fall occured after shooting ue162 worth and continued falling on to 8 m back couple of houses it approx arched up about ten feet , going to feet past point anchor .
inby spad 1486 between 1+2 entry a horse's back fell in track entry 7 breaks outby face , of 002 section . fall has been cleaned up and bolted . reported to msha 7:55 am .
redline - contractor employee ( fritz construction ) was working north of storm water pond when he noticed leg was itching and irritated on wed/4/11 . employee was sent to doctor by fritz , fri/4/13 . infected spider bite was diagnosed . prescription medication given for swelling / infection . returned to work thur/4/19 . 3 missed days . operator notified 4/16/12
ee was walking up steps to ma control room when he had a cramp in his leg causing him to fall to ground . when he fell to ground he hit his right shoulder on steps . employee initially didn't wa nt to go to doctor . after a couple of months it was still bothering him so he went to doctor . ee had surgery to repair torn rotator cuff on 4/24/12 .
ee reported : standing alongside his diesel ride parked along the mine travelway reviewing maintenence orderreports when a piece of draw rock measuring 1 '' x1 '' x2 ' fell from between roof bolts str iking his head and sliding down his back . experienced a possible neck strain and abrasions to his back . started loosing scheduled work days 7-5-03 .
injured worker ( 1w ) was replacing conveyor 26 headpulley guard over `` v '' -bolts from a standing position when he noticed irritation and discomfort on his left knee .
while triming a piece of slate a piece of slate hit him in the left eye y
two men were being lifted up in an enclosed work platform with a telehandler to perform task on structural steel frame . the work platform was passing by frame work and injured worker had right arm out .
attemptting to install a roof bolt when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on left foot .
ee was in process of installing roof bolt when bearing plate caught drill guide causing plate to jerk back catching employees left thumb and bending his left thumb backwards ( hyper-extension ) .
employee was stepping over a short retaining wall , carrying a box , in doing so he hit his left knee on a angle iron brace . on 1-5-01 employee sought medical aid , as he experienced discomfor t .
employee was helping remove ceiling tiles in bathroom . at break time , employee removed ppe and sweatshirt when something entered eye .
employee pinched right ring finger between air lance `` t '' handle and doorway of cement plant clinker cooler while using air lance to break up a high pile of clinker inside the cooler . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
ee was roof bolting with drill when rock fell from top , hitting ee on left hand resulting in puncture wound to left hand .
employee walked behind a backing forklift and got his left foot run over by the steering tire . forklift operator had checked behind him and the backup alarm was operating , however the employee walked into the forklift ' s path , apparently unaware the machine was moving or distracted by some other activity .
ee was supervising miner when rock rolled off ofrib and struck him on the back of his legs causing him to fall into the miner and break his nose
ie was climbing up on dozer and grabbed the handrail as ee stepped up foot slipped off the step pulling on ee's arm .
ee stated he was cutting plastic off of supplies . knife slipped and cut his finger .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd south panel @ spad # 24+20 , entry # 2. the fall measures 19'l x 19.8 ' w x 10 ' h .
a continuation of a roof fall located between # 1 and # 2 entries at spad 2509. continued into # 1 entry and fell up to spad # 2520. fall measured 16 ' high x 95 ' long and approx . 3500 ' outby section . fall was breakered off .
mixed fuel line came off at connection and sprayed ee in the face and eyes .
the miner listed below was drilling a hole into a piece of sheetmetal on an excavtor with a 3/8 '' drive electric hand drill . as the bit broke through the other side , the bit `` grabbed '' and started jerking . the drill slipped out of his hands and spun around striking his right hand .
employee was stacking 50 # bags on a pallet and pulled muscles in lower back . employee was released to come back to work on 8/25/08 but chose not to return until 8/26/08 . treated at custer regional clinic by dr for lower back strain .
employee was operating the 15 ton brookeville motor when he wrecked in the switch at 5 bk 3d at the spur switch . he bruised his right shoulder .
ee was fueling a dozer , handling the fuel hose when he started having pain in his right shoulder , neck and arm . he thinks he strained himself handling the fuel hose .
employee is a mechanic and has been for 30+ years . he has had wrist pain and weakness for some time . he was repairing on a personel carrier and his wrist couldn't hold up a trailing arm and it fell . this caused his hand to swell and start hurting more . he continued to work and was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syn . he was taken off work on 12/11/2009 .
ee was lifting a piece of pipe into the loader bucket when he pinched his finger between the pipe and bucket .
initial audiometric test indicated a reportable sts shift . employee was seen by an audiologist between the initial test and retest . he was scheduled for surgery due to skin cancer in his right ear . retest was conducted , but results were invalid due to medical condition . sts shift is being reported at this time and baseline will be revised .
ee stated that he hurt his back pulling cables . time ofinjury is unknown in that pain occurred after the shift .
employee was lifting miner cable and waterline and hanging it to the top and strained his back and shoulders .
the supervisor was installing a fuse in fuse holder . his hand slipped and made contact with electrical power . in pulling himself off he slipped & fell cutting the side of his face on junction box . eleven stitches were put in his face at thehospital .
a roof fall was found in the # 3 main entry one crosscut inby spad # 75. the fall was 20 ' by 20 ' by approximately 9 feet in thickness . the area was dangered off , and additional support was set in the area . the fall did not disrupt ventilation or the mining cycle .
employee states strained back while working on pipeline for the dredge . stated working out of a designated work boat and a gust of wind blew and started to separate the pipeline . ee states shoulder popped & he stopped working & stretched . he went back to work for the rest of the day with no problems . on monday 6/13/05 he reported to the er with back pain & said it was work related .
roof fall-c-entry , 2 1/2 south c @ 15+15 . approx 35 ' long x 25 ' wide x 8 ' high . sandstone and gray shale .
ee notified supervisor of pain in shoulder in dec. 2016. ee had noticed pain in shoulder that was bearable prior to that . had surgery on shoulder in 2011. notified supervisor of increased shoulder pain after work in the shop but thought it 'd go away given some time . ie has been maint . mechanic for 5 yrs , did outby work for 2 yrs & cm production for 6 yrs prior to that .
the slope hoist was down from 11:00 am till 5:30 pm on 3/24/2015 . the auxilary brake on the hoist gear box was sticking . this condition was repaired and the hoist put back in service .
employee was installing two new electric motor starters in existing panel box . turned breaker off to what he thought was the circuit he was working on . it was not the right breaker . came in c ontact with hot wires causing a flash .
ee tripped on his loose shoe sole & fell betweenhis stockpile truck & a catwalk causing a bruised leg . he was taking medication for 2 days whichprevented him from working
attemtping to change belts on pump-got left thumb caught between sheave and belt . jerked thumb out of pinch point , lacerating thumb and breaking tip of bone . injury required stitches .
injured was lifting a cable and strained shoulder . continued to work but had discomfort on 12-23-2016 injured had mri performed and on 12-28-2016 was informed that injured had a torn rotator cuff in the shoulder .
ee went to her vehicle in the parking lot to go home after work . she was folding up the third seat in her expedition and the seat fell back on her arm , bruising her right lower arm . she had re stricted day of work on 7-26-01 due to the injury . xrays taken were negative , her arm was bruised .
employee was turning on water hydrant in a push-pull motion to activate fly ash pump . while pulling , employee strained right shoulder . employee was still sore on january 5 and was sent to medi cal clinic and placed on restriced duty .
correction/entered incorrectly : north 6 , 6 entry , between 15 & 16 block , mmu 004 . 18 ' wide x 15 ' long x 6 ' high . support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , pans , screen , bars and jacks . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site .
dust blew into employee's left eye causing irritation . the commercial loadout screw was discharging lime onto the stockpile truck . the water spray system was replaced with a new system and it was being tested .
assumption is that ee lifted latches that secure a door , opened the door & put left hand inside mill ( mill 02 ) while the mill was in operation . as of the date of this report the ee has declined to provide a statement of the incident & there were no witnesses . employee suffered amputation to left thumb and 2 or more fingers .
a rock fell from roof above arched area of m east t way at # 148 xc . rock damaged wood lagging and arch top beam , fell through arch onto mine floor .
an unintentional roof fall was found in the no . 7 entry of the e-5 panel at spad 7915. the fall measured 18 ft wide , 12 to 15 ft high , and was 20 ft long when first found . then over the next 8 hours extended to 100 ft long .
while walking # 3 belt , ee heard roof bolt pop . he turned to look back and slipped off of bridge material . lost balance and reached for pipe chain to catch his balance . felt pain in left shoulder and lower back . area was wet and muddy . ee began missing work on 6-4-04. diagnosed as a rotator cuff tear on 6-4-04 .
ee was removing the center support bar from the belt-rock to put it threw the center of a new roll of belt , the support bar slipped out of his hands and caught his finger between the support a bar and the frame of the belt rack causing the injury .
a fire was discovered in the # 1 silo at approx . 11:45 p.m. on sunday , fuly 6 , 2003. the fire appeared to be approx . 4 to 5 feet in diameter and 3 to 4 ft in height . the coal that was burning w as extinguished by running it thru the preparation plant . msha investigated the incident on july 8 , 2003 .
operating the front end loader , loading shale into the stamler . lost time 6/3/05 , diagnostic treatment only before .
ee was attempting to take a hose off of a fitting with a hammer . he hit his left index finger with the hammer , smashing finger .
employee was hammering another employee's hammer to drive the a pin in to replace a cat track pad on a miner . his finger got smashed between the hammer handle and the tram gear box on the miner . sent to er for treatment . emp has compound fracture ( doctor pinned bone together ) and was placed on restrictions .
rock fell and hit ee on the head .
employee was entering mcc room . when switching his weight to his right leg his foot slipped out from under him . he placed his right arm out to catch his fall causing the injury . returned to work without restrictions 3/24/15 . returned to doctor for evaluation . reportable as of 4/22/15 for medical treatment . physical therapy ordered for tendinosis .
was changing forks to bucket ad right side tilt arm wouldn't move so we raised bucket upa and was tilting at same time when right side tilt arm pin exploded , and hit him in the arm and waist .
employee states that ee was cleaning the # 5 scrubber before ee went on break . at break time , ee took glove off and noticed blood inside ee's glove from a laceration to right middle finger . ee is unsure how it occurred .
inj had picked up a crib block when a crib fell & struck him
while removing a urethane screen , using a pry bar , it slipped and struck ee on the left side of his upper lip .
ee states he was loading valves onto crane truckwhen one fell over & crushed his right little finger between 2 valves . his finger was partially amputated at the the 1st knuckle at the tip of his finger . the finger was reattached at the hospital .
during an examination a roof fall measuring 20 ' l , 20 ' w , and 5 ' thick in the intake entries 4000 ' from the working section . the fall was located in the # 9 entry inby spad 58227 along # 3 belt which was developed aug 07. the type of roof support used was a 5 ' glue bolt . fall did not impede travel or ventilation and occurred due to laminated rock and coal in the immediate roof .
this ee alledges that he felt a sharp pain in lower abdomen when he said he slipped in mud trying to put up a heavy curtain board . he workied the remainder of the year without missing time but required surgery on 11/27/00 to repair . he began missing time on 11/27/00 .
taking out auger shaft-using crane & chain rigging . rigged chain around shaft on 1 end , other end had chain around auger flight . ee had his hand wrapped around chain , chain slipped off flight pinning lt hand against auger housing & chain . the crane had tension on so when it slipped it pinned ee's 2 fingers . then crane pulled up on chain lacerating fingers .
a pit blast hole driller was attempting to destroy a damaaged nylon choker by hitting it to cut it in 1/2 with a drill steel . the choker slipped and the driller hit his hand .
using a form clamp spring loaded to remove a concrete from . when ee went to push the clamp on spring was too tight , sprung back , jammed his shoulder .
a roof fall occurred on a off shift 5 breaks inby 2-d belt head . fall was approx . 35 ft long x 14 ft wide x 4 ft high .
chemical burn on right forearm . interior of protective clothing was inadvertantly contaminated by chemicals which had been exposed to rubber gloves . ee placed protective clothing onto self whi le wearing contaminated gloves . while placing the clothing on , the interior of clothing was contaminated by the gloves thus transferring the chemical to forearm .
employee was wearing safety glasses with welding hood while welding seams of steel while wind blew foreign debris into left eye . debris was embedded and removed at occupational doctor . he wa s released to full work duty 5-8-00 .
a roof fall measuring 40 ' long , 18 ' wide , 7.5 ' thick was found in the # 3 entry adjacent to the # 5 north belt approixmately 1700 ' outby the active section . the area was developed may 06 with 5 ' torque tension roof bolts . laminated coal and rock streaks above the anchorage zone was the cause . ventilation and the passage of personnel was not affected . no injuries occurred .
roof fall at spad # 1528. intersection 7 ft high 18 ft wide and 20 ft long . neutral entry .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the 4 way intersection of entry # 5 at 2 + 30 in the 1st south panel off of 2nd main east . did not affect ventilation or impede travel . the roof was suppo rted by 4 ' fully grouted resin roof bolts installed in out current approved pattern . development date was 10/5/00 .
employee had oil on sole of boot after changing oil in gear box of diester screen . stepped on steel step of cat walk , slipped & fractured left heel . placed on light duty .
cleaning gyratory bin , he stumbled , grabbed a chain that was hanging on a hoist and a second chanin that was on hoist struck him in the mouth , chipping front tooth .
ee was walking across the pump platform , he stepped over a pipe and twisted his ankle .
injury was attempting to clear a jammed belt on conveyor c-16 . while it was running a attempted to grab a rock from between the scraper and belt when his glove was caught by the belt and pulled his rt index finger between the belt and scraper and took the skin off the inside of his finger and blackened his nail . he had a remote to stop conveyor
employee wasw in process of loading steel track clip ties , as he bent over to pick up ties he experienced pain in low back and hips .
stung by a bee / alergic reaction .
ee was pulling on two dwyidags that were caught under some laggin when he felt a pain in his lower back .
an office emplyee was walking to her car after completing her scheduled shift . she stepped wrong , rolling her ankle and striking the parking lot . there was no slip , trip or fall . the parking lot was free of obstructins and snow/ice . the incorrect placement of her foot caused the employee to sustain a chipped tooth and minor abrasions .
conveyor belt 8 was destroyed by fire when flooded with hot clinker from the short drege bucket elevators and clinker cooler . lighting and other control wiring was destroyed .
a roof fall occurred in the south sub mains at 9xcut in entery # 7. the fall measured 25 ' long , 25 ' wide and 9 ' high . the fall did not affect ventilation , travel or cause injury . it will not be cleaned up .
a roof fall was discovered @ 13-11 xc , # 9 entry of the main east return . approximate dimensions of 20 x 20 x 12 .
ee was removing a steel frame from a railing that was being installed on a new production plant/the frame was attached to the rail by bolts and tack welds . after removing the bolts the tack welds failed to hold the frame causing it to fall 6 '' on to the ee foot.ee incured a minor fracture to his big toe on his right foot . the ee was able to continue working his normal duties no lo
ee had changed a light on cab of d10n dozer . as he changed body position , he either slipped or tripped and fell off dozer to the ground .
ee was attempting to install a metal roof strap in regular bolt pattern when strap flexed and sprung back striking ee on left forearm . ee suffered a laceration and received 7 sutures .
north 3,25 block , 5 entry , mmu 003 , spad # 5141. support : 6 ft. 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , jacks . 12 ft. wide x 14 ft. long x 7 ft. high . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site .
worker sustained a same surface fall while he was walking across a raw material hopper grizzley grate . he fell through the grating causing him to hit his chin on the metal grating . worker did not lose consciousness but sustained a laceration to his chin requiring sutures .
rubber tire dozer operator was moving spanner poles and performing cleanup in the shovel pit and claims to have aggravated a pre-existing back injury . he left work intending to see his pcp , currently ongoing .
ee improperly bent over to lift an 8 '' discharge hose and strained his lower back . sent to dr. , x-ray negative , prescription medication , restricted duty , diagnosed as l-s strain .
employee pinched finger betwen two rocks while stacking landscape stone . injury was an avulsion of the right ring finger .
the employee was walking through the plant area and stepped on ice covered with snow . he slipped and fell on his upper back causing a contusion and strain . he was given a rx .
reparing water line with two shop ee's who were using a bar ( ~15lbs . ) to raise line , the bar slipped and struck the ee on the right shoulder . the foreman was aware but ee did not think he needed medical attention . monday when ee reported to work with pain in right should was sent to medical treatment . this resulted in msha reportable .
while adjusting the flipper on the shredder , the adjusting lock nut broke loose . the wrench he was using slipped forward and his momemtum carried him into a guard on the machine . this caused a cut above his left eye , resulting in 3 stitches .
ee was measuring product silos : he stepped onto a bin door and twisted his back when he moved backward off the door . the door is approx . 3 '' high . ee was taken to community hospital for evaluation . initial diagnosis was muscle spasms .
ee was crossing under a belt conveyor , when water and mud splashed off of the conveyor into his face and eyes .
injured was hauling slate from the prep plant to an area to bed down a road . injured assumed it would be easier to back out the road instead of heading out as the others . as he began to back o ut of the road , he noticed he was too close to the ditch . his rear tires slid about 4 ft into the ditch overturning truck . he was examined at the hospital and released .
east panel # 2 entry , approx 20 ' inby center line of # 7 xcut , top had fell out apporx 12-14 '' semi-domed , employee ran drill steel up against roof . pressure on steel cause a piece of rock to break off causing drill steel to shift/slide sideways striking index finger on left hand . employee had moderate bruising/swelling & pain . doctors results showed a dislocation .
while cutting towards the headgate with the longwall shearer , a rock scour was encountered . sparks from the cutting drum apparently ignited hydrocarbons coming from the roof resulting in a fire . the fire was extinguished in approximately 30 seconds by the fire suppression system and a water hose .
employee was bolting a roof rall . he stepped upon the drill boom to put glue into the hole . he became dizzy and fell off the boom .
ee & 2 co-workers were working on the 005-0 section , hanging miner cable . ee's arms were above his head when he placed miner cable and water line into the cable hanger . ee immediately felt pai n in his mid back . he was taken to williamson memorial hospital where he was diagnosed with a herniated disc at l4 .
climbing down from the fuel truck and his foot eslipped off of the step . he bruised his right leg .
ee was pushing a load with his right leg and felt something pop in his lower back .
ee was walking back into our 12 ft diameter kiln and was approximately 100 ft inside kiln when he slipped on some loose castable and fine debris builtup on the sides of the kilm . when he slipp ed he stopped himself from falling with his right hand .
while the employee was boarding a mantrip , a rock fell from the top , striking him on his right hand . the employee was treated and released to return to normal duty the next day . after a follow-up physician visit , it was determined that the injury did not heal correctly and requires surgery . the employee began missing work on 3/14/2012 .
ee was enternal cab of 40 ton truck when his right hand slipped from the hand hold . ee s left hand reminded the hand hold and arm was twisted as his momention pulled him away from equipment .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 009 mmu at brk # 29 in the belt entry . roof fall was approx . 50 ' wide x 25 ' long x 6 ' high . laminated sandstone/slate .
ie used shovel to scrape material buildup off return idler . it appeared that the shovel caught between the up turning idler & the angle guard the shovel handle came up quickly hitting inj on chin inj dropped shovel & fell approx 6-8 ft away . it appeared that he bit tongue when hit in chin
employee in laydown yard lifting 1/4 '' steel plate 4'x4 ' to load on buggy . plate slipped on to right foot behind steel toe in boot resulting in fracture of big toe and 3rd and 4th toes . plate was slippery and muddy from rain .
ee was in parts room getting parts and when he came out he felt something in his right eye . ee did not know when he would have got something in his eye . dirt in eye , it was windy that day .
ee was installing drill wrench on his steel , the wrench slipped off striking his left hand , causing his thumb to be dislocated .
ee was operating shuttle car . a miner cable that was hung from roof plates fell striking ee in the face . ee's lip was cut and two teeth knocked out .
ee was assisting in hoisting belt together in order to make a splice when the chain they were using broke . the chain struck him in the mouth and jaw causing a laceration to the lip . he was tak en to the hospital and received 5 stitches .
on 6/25/12 ee was going down a ladder on the inside of a compartment to the lowest level module . he was going to step onto the floor , but there was some build up of material and he felt his ankle twist . ee did not report any pain at this time and continued work . reported discomfort on 7/16/12 . taken to the work clinic for xray . found to have a sprained ankle .
ee was working on vehicle 22-311. while working on suspension he heard a popping type sound . he immediately pulled his left arm away from bolts being tightened . the leaf springs may have shifted . springs were not under load .
a roof fall was discovered in # 5 entry 1 break inby spad 605 the estimated size of roof fall is 6ft high 18ft wide and 40ft long . no injuries reported .
ee was assisting a coworker to remove a rub rail from a continuous miner . when he swung the railhe tripped and fell straddling the rail . he states he landed on his testicles . he worked until 6-5-01 atwhich time he was instructed to remain off work until further notice .
ee picked up a pallet and started to twist around and lay it on another pile when ee felt a pop in ee's back .
ee was turning crusher , when his leg was pinchedbetween crusher & lifting hook on the crusher
ee was getting a piece of metal , he dropped it and it hit the sode of his left foot and ankle area .
ee was moving a power transformer onto the barge with two others . they lost their grip & it fell on him momentarily . the injury wasn't bothering him until 7/26/02 it became unbearable .
ee placed the roller on the beam of scrubber . the roller had grease on it so it slipped off of the beam and fell on his right hand , bruising it .
employee was using a razor knife to remove nylon bindings around supplemental roof support plates ( pizza pans ) when he recieved a laceration to the right hands . wound required sutures .
ee stepped outside during cold and snowy conditions to pick up a box of water . subject slipped on a mine belt and fell , twisting his back .
moving 50 # bags of anfo from front of trailer to rear . tore muscle and ligament in upper right forearm .
ee cut his finger & received sutures while trying to get a piece of rock out of # 3 tailpiece .
no men were on section at the time of fall . fall was on the way in and fell between pre shift and workers getting there . fall measured 4 ft high x 85 ft long . fell at 2 cross cut 1 intersection 3 to 1 across from end of tall piece 2 cross cuts outby ( spad # 831 which is located in # 4 entry ) .
ee was lifting a piece of 8 '' channel iron into place . as he twisted it up with his wrists he felt a pain in his right hand and wrist . he was evaluated by a physician and therapy was started on 12/19/01 .
an unplanned fall of roof occurred in the last open crosscut on the active working section . the fall measured approx 38 ' long by 15 ' wide by 6 ' thick . the location was 2 crosscuts in by statio n spad # 28110 in the # 4 entry ( bolt entry ) and adjoining right crosscut . no injuries and no equipment damage . area supported by 4 ' fully groutedresin rods .
ee was unload a load of cribbing material with a forklift , the pallet of cribbing was raised up and employee was placing a piece of wood under the pallet . pallet slipped smashing his rt . thumb . as a result of his finger continued to hurt , went to seek medical treatment 10/12/06 .
a roof fall occurred on the longwall tailgate entry . the fall was approx . 30 ' kibg x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high . the longwall blockage plan was followed and the fall will be mine through .
ee was pulling material off 7b conveyor when he began to feel overheated . he stepped outside to get air and water and began feeling worse . may day was called to have him checked out ; ee was treated for heat exhaustion and dehydration .
the employee was lifting a steel beam with other workers when ee felt a burning sensation in groin area . the following were not a factor : rules , regs , skills , proficiency , training , equipment , protective devices and clothing . attitude may have been a factor . the employee began losing time on 10/25/16 .
employee was pulling a jack-leg machine & driver off a newly installed bolt when ee slipped causing ee to fall with the machine . ee's right ribs made contact with d-handle . employee reported to supervisor at the end of the shift and was seen by the medic who referred ee to the er . x-rays were positive for a non displaced fracture to a rib and restrictions were issued .
initial visit on 8/13 and diagnosis was a possible pulled muscle . a subsequent visit and test onaugust 21 revealed a moderate sized herniation of the 5-6 discs .
emp . stepped off a bolter's operator platform , which was approx . 12 '' above ground level and stepped on a rock approx . 3 '' diameter in loose muck , causing his right ankle to twist .
ee alleges he was beating on bin with a piece of metal trying to unplug the bin and he felt pain in his right wrist .
the side of the employee's right foot was struckby the stinger on a jackleg drill .
ee was shoveling when he turned he pulled a msucle in upper left back area .
ee and two other employees were setting a new belt header . header frame was sitting on a duck bill of a scoop . employees were attempting to level the header frame when ee crawled under the boom . the header suddenly tipped forward and struck ee .
ee was attempting to dislodge a large cobble plugging a chute using a pry bar . the pry bar slipped and ee fell back on platform . bar struck him above his left eye brow causing an approx . 3.50 cm laceration . ee received stitches and was released back to full duty .
ee was building stopping when he mashed finger on right hand .
employee was gettinf off a 980 front end loader when he slipped , causing pain in his lower back .
slipped in/on mud on top of storage silo # 2. foot caught channel ( metal support that holds air lines ) and twisted/bent backwards . ee feels pain on top of foot and in toes .
employee requested medical treatment on july 9th and was placed on restricted duty . employee stated he was turning water valve using a wrench . during the process , the wrench was stuck and when he applied additional pressure , the wrench slipped off the valve and alleged he fell backwards . diagnosed with lumbosacral sprain , lower and upper back contusion ( s ) , and back abrasion .
the ee was removing slag from a slag pot . a sharp piece of slag went through her leather glove and cut the ee's hand .
ee was prying on a push beam latch bar , slipped hitting him on his left ( thigh ) leg ; causing a very large blood blister .
an employee was putting a 4 '' pipe into a warman pump tank when ee's feet slipped causing ee to fall into the tank at which time ee's left hand was smashed between the pipe and the tank .
employee was using a freightliner water truck to wash out under the field conveyor . the nozzle came off . the employee then crimped the hose turned to shut the water off at the valve . the hose came un-crimped and employees hand slipped the hose clamp cut employees hand
the ee working in direct sun light without water or taking frequent breaks adding a joint to the dredge line . ee failed to follow instructions to come off the pond . he went home without properly notifing supervisor and later that evening went to er and was diagnosed with heat exhaustion .
walking down steps of washplant control tower when he fell hitting landing on back and neck area .
water spraying from a discharge pipe startled eecausing him to step back & trip . the fall injured his back .
a rock fall 6 ' high , 20 ' wide , 40 ' long was found near break 79 at spad number 1668 in the number one entry of the panel 6a . this fall did not hinder travel or flow of ventilation .
exiting conveyer stepped on stones twisted rt ankle .
employee complained of left wrist and shoulder hurting . this could be the result of bagging product ( 99 lb bags ) .
employee was operating shuttle car . going from feeder to the miner tire went over a rock in roadway bouncing ee into the canopy of the shuttle car . hurt ee neck .
ee was operating a jack hammer . the jack hammer slipped and finger was smashed . reason for reporting : restricted duty .
ee stepped off getman scaler and twisted right ankle . ee placed on restricted duty on 2/05/16 and returned to full duty on 2/12/16 .
occupational illness : ignuinal hernia .
employee was loading a volvo hauler from a bin with 6 '' rip rap when he got struck by a piece of rock . the rock may have struck the left side of his hard hat causing a contusion to the left side of his head ( temple area ) .
while working on the feeder , ee stepped off of the feeder and heard a popping in knee . ee had immediate pain after ee heard the pop .
employee is not sure when or how he got something in his left eye it just atarted hurting .
employee was assisting a co-worker who was welding a seco shaker frame when he received an arc flash . employee did not feel the injury was severe enough to report right away . informed employer on 7/14/06 .
ee was jostled in a truck when the bed fell . he was examined and released as a first aid case . he was examined again on 1/11/07 as a result of increased symptoms from the initial incident . physical therapy was prescribed and adminstered .
employee was in process of climbing a 992 c cat front end loader , when entering operators compartment , felt a sharp pain in mid right lower back area . while trying operate front end loader pain became more intense , at that time co worker notified foreman of injury .
the ee was hand leveling the floor of a shallow trench for a sewer leech field . a side wall cave and buried the mans legs up to his knees . his left knee twisted causing the injury . the man was flown to the dillingham hospital for x-rays .
the # 8 elevator was reported down at 3:53pm . the elevator was above the top landing . the car had faulted on counter with switch and car up over travel . the counter weight buffer switch was cleaned and lubed and the car placed back into service @ 8:30pm . all necessary agencies were notified and no individuals were on the elevator at the time .
ee has been experiencing pain in the cervical area whenever he operates haulage trucks . he was diagnosed with degenerate disc disease and arthritis in his neck . a physicican has recommended th at ee not return to work at this time .
ee was on top of railroad car to move storm lids from opening on the car to prepare to move the car to the next loading position . he stated that he was moving the lid and slipped falling into the hopper car partially loaded . he did not have his safety belt on at the time of the incident .
unknown , isp minerals is reporting this standard threshold shift as a precaution and protective measure even though this report may not be required by law . there are presently no indicators that this is a work related hearing loss . a hearing conservation program has been and will remain in effect . isp minerals investigation regarding the cause is ongoing .
ee was pulling water hose in mine . hose caused twisting because of tension on hose . weight was on left foot which was on a loose rock . ee lost control of his footing and spun 180 degrees and fell to ground . no equipment was involved . ee suffered fracture to bone in left leg and misaligned left ankle .
employee was traveling and examining return air course off old # 1 unit and ee's ride was stuck in mud . attempting to pull ride out with come-along it broke striking ee in mouth . employee went to dentist and a crown on ee's tooth was broken . 4-15-2016 it was brought to my attention that a crown was broken and replaced on ee's teeth after seeing a dentist .
employee was removing panel rubrail from a shuttle car . when the rubrail was being placed on mine floor employee injured left thumb .
ee was using autility knife to splice telephone wire when the knife slipped and lacerated his right middle finger . stitches were needed to close the wound .
a shuttle car broke down in a roadway and was being pushed back with the miner . the car slid up on the bumper of the miner then fell back offbouncing operator against cab of shuttle car .
ee was connecting a portable air compressor to pickup truck trailer . ee pulled and lifted on the trailer tongue and the trailer rolled forward , the trailer tongue stuck the ees hand that was positioned on the pickup truck bumper .
another ee fell on top of ee when rope snapped being used to pull conduit .
an unplanned rooffall occurred in the # 130 mine that measured 40'lx20'x61/2'h .
crew had moved section power box . ee & coworker were attempting to reconnect high voltage power cable plug to rear of sub . positioned behind sub was high voltage cable storage tub . he was standing between sub & storage tub . a scoop traveling in x-cut behind tub struck rear corner of tub , slewing it sideways pushing front of tub forward catching his ankle against rear of power box .
while operating shuttle car , ee ran over a rock or hole in the roadway , causing him to hit his head against canopy of shuttle car .
ee was operating shuttle car going back to miner when he went through some water and hit a hole . this threw ee's body into top . ee's left side and head , bottom of neck has pain down through his back .
employee reported to hr that he had back pain that was interupting his sleep and that the pain may be caused by the loader . initially this was thought to be a flare up from a previous claim . recently it was decided that a new injury date would be assigned .
while hanging high voltage cable a section of the cable started to drop out of hv hanger and employee attempted to catch the cable . he felt a pain in his right shoulder . the employee stayed on the job until 4/17/2013 when his doctor took a mri of his shoulder .
ee was bolting mine roof when a rock came spinning down the drill steel came off and struck him on the chin causing a laceration to his chin .
ee was hooking dogs onto block when lost balance on ladder and slipped & fell approx 3 ft spraining his left knee .
bauxite transfer attendent was using a scaling bar to descale a conveyor discharge chute . he pinched his left hand , fifth finger between the scaling bar and the chute causing a laceration that required sutures to repair .
injured was operating a ram car . ee went to make a turn and the center section of the car bottomed out against each other . when the center section connected it jarred ee and ee felt increased pain in lower back .
employee was removing boards on a scaffold . he was taken to the doctor , his eye was flushed and was perscribed eye drops .
ee fell forward in the deck of a rail motor when it derailed and wrecked . ee was diagnosed with two fractured ribs .
employee was walking from breakroom going to catch a product sample and slipped and fell in the travelway ( rained during the night ) . he sustained an avulsion fracture to his left wrist . he is working with restrictions and wearing a splint .
the injured employee was removing a cutting edge from a fel ; this involved using an impact gun to remove bolt / nuts which secure the edge to the bucket . the employee did not adequately secure the bolt and their hand was lacerated when the bolt head spun with the nut .
while attempting to move several rocks that fellon g-track , employee claims he lost balance and started to fall , he stuck out his hands to catchhimself , claiming injuries to both thumbs . cause of alleged injury was awareness , safety equipment o.k . rules and regualtions not a factor , minerproficiency a factor , mining equipment not a factor .
hot slag burned a hole in 02 line when cutting metal with oxyacetylene unit about 6 '' below fittings , resulting in 1st & 2nd degree burns to lower right abdomen at belt line . the 2 x 3 '' area occured through 5 layers of clothing , 4 of which were cotton or partly cotton . e.r . administered care & had him take one day off .
employee was using 3 ' ladder to access slides that switch from one silo to another . he was climbing ladder w/a pipe used to push the slide . weight of ladder caused it to tip over backwards and employee fell to the ground , a distance of 3 ' . he landed on his left side , brusing his ribs .
ee was taking information from a classifier motor tag plate when dust particles fell from above.some of this material got into his left eye . a small piece of metal became inbedded in his eye .
a foreign object made its way into the ee's right eye when grinding on a metal drive sprocket . safety goggles were worn by the ee but continued to fog up . the foreign object may have entered the eye when removing the goggles to clear the lens . the ee's eye was irritated & required medical attention of removing a rust spot & prescribing an antibiotic to clear up the irritation .
ee was walking down stairs with storage box in hands , she stumbled and brabbed left hand railing it gave in and twisted her to the right causing her to fall down on the steps hitting her back .
number 2 hoist had a hydraulic break . msha was notified at 10:00 am , miners evacuated at 10:00 am , evacuation was complete at 10:22 am . hydraulic was repaired , tested , and miners returned underground at 10:40 am .
worker was unrolling det cord from a spool using his middle finger as a spindle . a burr or splinter on the spool lacerated the finger .
employee sprained ankle on 4/27/00 ; continued towork until 5/27/00 . at that time , pain and swelling caused him to miss work .
good cool temperature . ee was cutting the dump cable with a blow torch when the cable swung and struck him in his right hand .
on 6/21/01 the employee declined any medical attention , then on july 11 , 2001 he requested to see his doctor for treatment . status changed to reportable . the employee was operating a front end loader , when he hit a bump & the seat bottomed out jarring his back , his left arm also hit the seat arm rest when reaching for the cb radio .
while ee was working on holoflite scrubber , he was putting separator baffle adapter in . ee bent over center while pushng and lifting , straining back .
injured stated he was drilling a hole in the mine roof when he hit a crack and let his drill steel come out of the chuck stirking him on the fingers .
the employee fractured his right wrist when he was knocked to the ground by falling wooden pallets . the employee and a coworker were stacking and relocating pallets on the north side of the packhouse , when the coworker lifted pallets causing them to topple . the employee was treated on the doi and release on restricted duty status pending further treatment .
ee reported wrist pain on 8-9-06 , but doesn't know or when or how it started . doctor states the ee experienced a wrist spain and the ee was put on restrictions for the healing process .
the ee was changing a screen and dropped the screen cloth . as he tried to catch it , he caught his finger between the screen cloth and the side of the screen , resulting in a fracture to left ri ng finger .
ee stated that while reaching for a ball of tape on top of his motor , a piece of rock fell and hit him on both hands , resulting in stitches .
while attempting to move a large rock on muck pile , excavator moved off ramp and tipped onto it's side . employee was wearing seat belt and was not injured except for bump on head . ee was taken to medical facility for evaluation and released to return to work without restriction .
a roof fall approximately 75 feet in length by 20 feet wide from 1 to 4 feet thick fell in the intake entry between the # 51 and 52 crosscuts in the 15th west section . it appears that a lateral shift of the top may have occured . the top in this area consisted of laminated shell and cap rock .
a roof fall was discovered on the 8p section by a fireboss making his weekly exam . the fall was located at # 16 break in the intersection and extending over into the 2x3 crosscut .
ee was attempting to climb up onto the jaw pitman to perf9rm maintenance on the shaft of the jaw pitman . in doing so , while the ee was reaching for a hand hold he acquired a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee alleges that he injured himself while lifting/twisting machine parts . employee alleges conditions had worsened over a short period of time . the employee stated that there was no specific incident that precipatated the injury .
the medical was reviewed and it was made known on 1-17-11 that it was work related . physical therapy was ordered and a series was completed . the employee was driving his dozer , backed into a feeder and was jostled , resutling in an injury to his shoulder .
employee was workingin high wind area without wearing goggles . wind blew dirt into left eye .
employee was attempting to chock the wheel under ram car # 163 when he smashed his left ring finger tip between the block and the frame of the ram car , resulting in a broken finger tip and a small laceration approximatly a half inch long on the inside of his finger tip .
ee was pulling miner cable when he slipped on very slick bottom rock and twisted his lower back .
while replacing the reverse osmosis ( ro ) membranes , the employee's right hand was caught between the ro housing and the membrane filter . three middle fingers were pinched . the employee was taken to a local hospital immediately after first aid . five stitches were received to close cuts from the accident . follow-up x-rays were taken , but no bone fractures were observed .
employee was working on a hauler utilizing the man-lift . while in the man-lift basket , employee moved to another location . while moving , the man-lift hit a hole causing the basket to jarr the employee into the handrails hurting his lower back . employee was prescribed physical therapy starting june 2,2005 .
ee was getting off 777d truck when he bumped his knee on the corner of the step .
operating mantrip steering knob jerked in ee ; s hand twisting right wrist . a reoccurance of same happened on 1/17/01 at 11:40pm company was informed of both accidents on 1/18/01
ee at job site watching turbine pump . ee felt something on his back thinks he was bitten by a spider although he never did see a spider . area became infected and he was seen at e.r . 9 days later reported to supervisor 3/26/12 .
injured was riding in hte back seat of the school bus when it trammed over a dip or rock in the road causing injured to be tosssed up & out of his seat , landing back inhis seat in the seated p osition causing him lower back pain .
employee was using a ratchet and socket to remove a bolt from a v-belt guard to change v-belts . while pulling on the ratchet , the socket slipped off the bolt head . when this happened , his little finger ( pinky ) on his right hand struck the angle iron on the edge of the v-belt guard cutting it to the bont .
ee was putting up the 1st row of bolts in 5r . while installing the rib bolt the corner came off striking him in the left leg .
injured person was using a utility knife to cut plastic ties being used to hold glass cleaning station in place . after several attempts to cut through it finally cut through and his shoulder j erked forward , causing injury .
ee strained his back while turning over hand rails to be sand blasted .
during hoisting , a switch malfunction allowed skip gate to get out of sequence and catch on crossmember support in headframe and caused slack rope that stopped hoist . after investigation , slack rope taken up , test run done , and all ok. no injuries .
stepped from haul truck , turned to leave and twisted rt hip , strained rt hip muscles . dr prescribed muscle relaxant .
employee was pulling afc chain back on the head drive when he felt pain in his stomach area . lost time injury reportable november 13 , 2006 .
ee was helping to tighten bolts on crusher when he turn and pull muscle in his back .
the ee got his right knee caught between the coal rib and a shuttle car cable . the ee worked until 1-31-00 without any problems with his knee . lost time began on 1-31-00. we were notified of t he injury on 2-1-00 .
employee was operating mantrip , pole came off of trolley wire . while trying to put pole back on wire , he struck his head on overcast .
employee was walking to restroom at the start of the shift and slipped on ice . he broke his wrist trying to catch himself when he fell .
injured riding on inby side of 15 man diesel mantrip . mantrip operator did not notice that 206 spur ( 9 south ) was thrown for turn , or motors were present and ran into the switch , striking a motor . injured struck head and left knee on interior of mantrip . no problem with mining methods , training , ppe , or compliance issues .
a roof fall was found on 2nd shift by the outby mine foreman in the southeast entries . spad # 2+70 in the x-cut between # 4 & # 5 entries . the fall was 4'high x 17'wide x 35'long . it will not be cleaned up . 48 '' double lock roof bolts were used in the area .
the elevator at cook's branch was reported having a problem @ 10:09am that prevented it from operating properly . it was repaired and returned to service at 11:31am . the msha hotline was contacted .
employee was measuring a timber when the rib rolled stricking him from behind and knocking him down .
ee was troubleshooting a ground fault on the lights on top of silo 4. conditions were windy and coal dust blew into his eyes , although he was wearing safety glasses at the time . he developed a n infection in the right eye lid and was prescribed antibiotics .
the ee was standing on the crusher operator platform when the loader dumped a load of rock into the hopper . a rock hit the side of the hopper causing a piece to break off which struck the ee o n the breast bone causing a small skin tear and a minute amount of bleeding .
ee was beside another worker who was using a hammer and a piece of metal from hammer flew into his eye . started missing work 9/26/2008 .
ee was struck in right eye by rock from passing equipment . rock deflected from underside of brimof hardhat and struck eye . lost 2 workdays .
ee `` independent contractor '' was working on welder . was checking for an antifreeze leak . disabled guard & got finger too close to the fan blade on welder , cut finger .
employee was removing picks on a 24h motorgrader with a 4 # sledge hammer , when he felt pain in his upper back . he was given a full duty release on 08/04/2009 and then returned to the clinic on 08/09/2009 , with a muscle spasm . he was given restrictions for the rest of the day and given a full duty release on 08/10/2009 .
employees were putting up curtain boards when injured's buddy got drill steel stuck in top . he walked over and lifted up on board and freed up steel . his buddy then lowere drill pot down on hi s left foot breaking big toe & next one down .
ee was operating miner . he then stepped back and tripped on miner cable and broke his right wrist .
while lifting a roll of cord onto loader , ee pulled lower back employee claims . he also advised this is pre-existing condition and he works another job . ( approx 20 lbs )
ee was attempting to roll a rock , approx . 30 bls , out of the roadway so light vehicle could pass by .
the employee was standing on a ladder , unplugging a hot clinker dust chute . when the material flushed the ee could not get out of the way . hot dust flowed across his boots causing 2nd degree b urns to the top of both feet .
gradually was sample prep , noticed something happening night back in 2001 nothing was ever documented verbally or written . moved up to fire assay lab it went away last 3 months this year have been in sample prep , more often wrist and hand got worse . numbing and hurting waking empoyee up during night
# 1 entry of mine cut through into 32 '' auger holeon left rib . auger hole work nut properly plotted on mine map . hole contained water , which had to be pumped .
injured stepped back away fromt he back of bolter and slipped when he stepped on trailing cable . he used his left arm to grab the rib drill x bar . '
the employee was loosening a bolt on a cylinder on a payloader when he hit his elbow .
employees were pulling wood and rocks from the raw coal crusher in an attempt to unclog it . the injured ee later experienced back pain which did not subside . he sought medical treatment for this on 2-11-05 .
employee was breking , when he struck the wedge with his hammer , a shaving from the wedge broke off and cut his right forearm .
injured was washing under slope belt . when he turned the water on , the water rushing through the open nozzle on the 1 1/4 '' hose caused a sudden whipping action . this caused the hose end to str ick him on the left side of his face .
ee was checking the oil in our 7740 ford tractor . when he shut the hood it cut his small finger on his left hand . the hood closed down on his hand .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new future portal at the 9 west headgate belt entry # 3 , crosscut 47,6970 west . the fall was approx . 20 ft long , approxl 15 ft wide , and approx . 10 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up .
he was lifting 25 lb bags which resulted in having a sore wrist .
type of support : 6 ' tension rebar . cover : approx 200 ' , spad 6219. dimension : length 40 ' , width 16 ' , height 7 ' . see attached map . conditions contributing : high humidity causing detachment on roof support .
the ee was using a comealong & chain fall no . 1 chokers where being used and it slipped . ( prescription medication ) .
ee was rerouting conduit . after moving conduit ee was attempting to clamp conduit when conduit slipped & pinched indexfinger he got l index finger caught between conduit & the handrail cas ued laceration that required sutures .
employee filed for occup pneum on 9/19/00 . rec notice 10/12/00 . claim # 20010103456 .
while investigating loud noise and excessive vibration from usi crusher . a steel plate welded on chute broke loose and fell striking ee on head . call pipe was in use at time of accident .
a non injury roof fall occurred outby 22 north miner section mmu 002 , the fall measured 10'x12'high 18 ft wide for 200 feet int he # 2 entry x cut 23 to 40 outby x cut 25 .
ee was driving stockpile truck at # 1 plant when complained of lower back pain . he believes that motion/ride of truck caused him to strain lower back . ee had seen a doctor but no conclusive res ults were made . on 6-4-02 ee called in & said that he would not be in ( back was hurting ) & going to dr's office . dr says has abnormality called spondylolysis . missed 1 day .
ee began displaying symptoms of post traumatic stress after he observed a fellow ee get his right hand amputated in a screw conveyor . ee is being treated by a psychiatrist and an ee assistance counselor .
roof bolter operator was inserting a bolt into a bolt hole . as the bolt was pushed in to the hole , it was being spun at a high rpm to mix the resin . after spinning for the req 'd time , the b olt was thrust upward into the hole . as it went up , a spark was caused and a fist sized ball of flame was observed . it immediately extinguished itself location- no . 5 entry x-cut , mmu-001-0
injury was spinning the head of the cemco & other employee was using an air gun when his finger got stuck between the head of the cemco & the air gun socket .
a non-injury roof fall occurred on the 003 mmu during pillar recovery covering the joy continuous miner . the rock fell from the cut and did not pull permanent roof supports .
ee was grinding on a lifting eye with the shop bench grinder . he was wearing a face shield with his glasses on . he felt a piece of metal bounce into his eye . he flushed it but it still bothere d him . the dr found eye irritated by no debris still in it . ee returned to work the same day .
this employee attemped to move and set a shield by remote means . the shield appears to have set by the auto-set function . the side seal was over lapped and the side seal came off striking the employee .
ee was cleaning on to the excavator and his foot slipped off of the step . the ee was holding onto the railing and was supporting his body weight w/arms until able to place foot onto step again . the next day ee reported groin pain . on 9/14/00 ee was diagnosed with a hernia .
during the morning startup the production hoist kicked out . it was reset and moved , but then kicked out again . the hoist then could not be restarted because of an overloaded motor lead . an evacuation was called at 5:25 am because of loss of the secondary escapeway . msha emergency notification was called at 5:29 am .
a roof fall measuring 18 ' long , 18 ' wide , and 7.5 ' was discovered 7680 ' from the active section in the # 5 entry inby ss 3195 the old # 8 belt entry . permanent roof supports installed were 4 ' resin bolts . no injuries occurred from the fall . the fall did not affect ventilation , equipment or the travelway .
while emp was cutting a piece of rubber belt with a razor knife the knife slipped cutting emp's right leg .
ee was on the surface using a shovel to clean off stacker belt , while shoveling he twisted his body causing injury to himself that resulted in a hernia . ee continued to work doing reqular duti es til his surgery was scheduled . first day off work was jan 22,01 .
ee was tightening a rod with a 36 '' pipe wrench . he somehow hit the rotation lever iether fell into it or hit it with the pipe wrench causing his hand to get pinned between the wrench and the drill head motoer
ee injured left leg and ankle when left rib rolled while operating roof bolter . he worked his next 4 scheduled days and missed work on 1/12/05 , his first scheduled day not worked .
injured ee was holding a large t bolt in place with his right hand while another ee was tightening it with an impact wrench . the bolt shifted , pinching his rt . middle finger between the t bolt and the housing causing a small laceration to his middle finger . sutures were required .
ee stated that he felt a sharp pain in his groin when lifting a sample and twisting to load into a truck . he did not report the inury until 1/8/08 . the company and the workers compensation carrier investigated and determined that the injury was compensible on 2/27/08 .
member was taking down a roof bolter cable he was standing on top of the machine he lost his balance falling to the ground landing on his rt side fracturing his ribs . he never quit working went to hospital where he was diagnoised with 2 broken ribs and allowed to return back to his job
was assisting in loading a 15 gallon drum of oilinto service truck . as he and another worker lifted the drum onto the truck tailgate , it fell causing the drum to cut his finger . the tailgate legs were in contact with the truck bumber , but slipped and drum started to fall off . he still had his hand under the drum which cut his fingeras it started to fall . 3 stiches to close wound .
while installing engine in a d8r . the threads pulled off a bolt on a lifting eye causing chain to strike ee on the top of the head .
employee picked up ore sample in 5 gal bucket to bring to lab . bucket was fuller than usual & was very heavy . employee tried to use one hand , but couldn't lift the bucket . then ee used both hands to lift bucket . a day later , employee felt pain in shoulder . **employee returned to regular duty . on may 22 , he was unable to work . dr determined it to be result of 4/22/07 incident . **
employee attempted to close the door on a rail car but it did not latch properly . the ee moved awkardly to get out of the way and felt pain in his lower back .
the employee was tightining lugs on a piece of equipment . while applying a great amount pressure to torque to specs , the wrench came loose and the employee slipped to the ground and the wrench went into the air . the wrench fell down , striking the employee in the forehead . the employees hard hat and safety glasses fell off when he slipped to the ground .
while setting down on a transmission of a 777 , ee reached to get a ( pick up ) 17 lb short drive and sprained his arm . ( elbow )
while replacing a piece of pvc line , ee twisted his back .
ee was mounting backhoe when back foot slipped on pile of material , causing ee to overextend pulling muscle in groin . poor ground conditon and rain where backhoe was parked contributed to accident . in attempt to save time ee used poor judgement on stabliity of step he was using to mount backhoe . ee placed on light duty 7/19/05 .
employee was operating a scraper . ee was hauling rock to dump area . while unloading , the impact of the machine running over rocks caused twisting and straining of the ee's stomach muscles .
injured was washing at the bottom of the dump/slope belt . material being washed consisted of pumpable crib material that had been mined on the previous shift . the hardening agent of the cribs caused chemical burns to the lower legs .
off duty employees traveling in private vehicle collided with another vehicle on mine access road . two employees sustained injuries including multiple contusions , abrasions , brusing and fractures to leg .
unloading screens out of a jon boat and the wind caught the screen .
employee was working on cover over dodge coupling when a piece of metal struck his rt . hand .
ee was moving angle iron from a rock he felt something pull however , he thought it was a pulled muscle . he notified us on 2/21/02 . he has a hernia
employee slipped and fell . he caught himself with outstreched arm , dislocating shoulder .
employee had positioned crib block under gathering pot . pan was being raised up and down on crib block . trying to break gathering pot loose . ee reached in to re-position crib block when pan was let down on his left thumb , break and laceration to left thumb .
while attempting to loosen an oil filter under a 993 loader , employee strained his neck . employee went to the doctor on 2/20/2015 and the doctor put him on restricted duty . note : ee went to dr on 3/13/15 and the dr took him off work beginning 3/13/15 .
associate felt ill while operating mobile equipment & called for help . other associates arrived to help . associate went into cardiac arrest & cpr was performed as well as aed unit used until paramedics arrived . associate was stable when taken to hospital . associate later passed away on sunday , october 25th .
employee was welding off and on all day on a jaw crusher , doing repairs . he was wearing a welding helmet , but he was ina tight spot , so it was difficult to get the mask down in time , every time , before he started welding . he had welding flash as a result .
the area was being rock dusted with the ee being inby . when the ee tried to walk outby he tripped and fell on his left shoulder . ee worked until 7-20-09 , surgery will be done for a torn tendon .
employee stated that he was putting 3-wheeler on charge when his foot got caught between miner cable & high line cable . employee turned but his foot was caught and didn't turn with him . ( questioning injury ) another ee was listed as a witness , but ee stated that he didn't see anything .
# 2 hoist would not release the left brake . msha hotline called approx . 6:45 pm . `` msha '' returned the call and instructed the mine to call when the hoist was repaired . he was called approx . 10:05 pm . electricians found a defective propotional valve control and replaced . the mine had access at all times to two routes of travel and escape via our # 1 hoist and # 2 skips .
ee was lifting a 480 power cable for a grasshopper conveyor & his feet slipped & he felt a pull in his lower back . ee felt the pain would go away & did for several days and then 0n 3/27 it bec ame worse so he requested to see a dr
employee was climbing steps on a komatsu end loader and ee's footing slipped and ee fell .
ee started a/c unit and a piece of debris flew out and hit him in right eye . due to the fact the ee was in an enclosed cab , he was not required to wear safety glasses .
hanging line curtain in # 7 entry next to roof bolter , when rock fell between roof bolts & struck ee on right thigh above right knee .
while attempting to lift surge bin door for repairs , 2nd hinge broke , causing door to fall . in ee's attempt to catch door ( to prevent it from striking another ee ) his right hand-ringer finger was smashed . finger was fracture & ee returned to work w/restricted duty limitations , the next work day .
un-lugged 80 lb steel rail from ties and was moving it over with a slate bar when he felt pain in his back . he continued to work until 5-25-05 .
a roof fall occurred at xcut 12 , entry # 4 secondary escapeway , main north off of the main west . fall is 16'l x 18'w x 6'h . supported with 6 ' point anchor bolts . fall will be cleaned up and resupported . secondary escapeway has been rerouted .
roof fall in # 2 entry 80 ' inby spad # 550 . 20 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' . no injuries .
employee stepped off the diesel mantrip into 4-5 '' of water near spad 260 at the elevator and twisted his right ankle . this is to report medical treatment in the form of orthopedic immobilization . ( crutches/cane and ankle splint )
the ee was dismounted a d-9n when his foot pivoted to the right and he felt a burning sensation to his lower back .
employee missjudged the single step along a walkway and fell which resulted in a laceration to his right palm and required sutures to close .
ee stated that he was carrying a tool bag while walking around a motor that was off track . whilewalking his knee gave out .
have a hose shoved into a 4 inch drisco to get it unclogged , rocks and material blew into face when it became unclogged . unsure if material or drisco struck forehead causing a laceration . ( 5 stitches required )
while standing and talking with another employee , ee fainted
ee was driving a pin into a belt drive chain , when a small piece of metal came out and lodged into his left eye .
the injured person was climbing down from the rigid/stationary scaffolding , mistepped and fell 3-4 ' to the concrete floor , resulting injury to his left kneecap , hand and right ankle .
injured was in maintenance trainee program and was making a splice on 24 shuttle car cable in st leo rehab area . while hitting beat block with bit hammer ( to crimp wires together ) , the hammer glanced off and struck ee's left thumb resulting in a fracture of the distal joint in the phalange and a laceration that required 9 sutures to close .
ee stated that he tripped over the shuttle car cable & injured his left leg
employee was assisting with welding . complaints of eye irritation . maxitrol administered .
ee was using pry bar attempting to unchoke chutewhen pry bar slipped smashing finger against chute
the bucket of the hitachi 700 loaded with rock slamed into the back of the haul truck and jarred the truck severely
a roof fall was discovered at 1:35 pm at crosscut 8 between # 2 and # 3 entries of 8 south . the fall measured approximately 20 ft. long , 20 ft. wide and 6 to 7 ft. high . the fall did not impede ventilation or escapeways .
delivering safety glasses to ee and impact crusher medal in eye .
ee was working on the jaw crusher in prospect . he was putting a cover from the crusher down when a bolt on the cover hit the index finger on his right hand . the ee pulled his hand back towards him in pain which caused the cover to take the skin off of his finger from the middle of the finger to the tip .
employee hit conveyor flight with hammer & a piece of metal hit ee in the face , his right cheek .
employee , maint mechanic , began welders training on 11-26-01. actual welding of materials is part of the training . on 12-14-01 , he had welded two pieces of plate . he was using a wheel grinde r to remove excess slag from the weld . a piece of slag flew underneath his face shield and caused eye irritation . medication prescribed . ee is not losing time or on restrictions .
the ee was struck by a 4 '' beam that was on the # 2 trailing shield when the # 1 trailing shield struck the beam while it was advancing forward . that is when the ee was struck by the beam .
ee had been adjusting a bracket at the top of the drill boom , as he stepped onto the drill cab he slipped on the oily cab surface & bruised his left rib cage area . ee worked 3/9/02 & reported off on 3/11/02 . employer was not notified until 3/11/02 .
lifting anfo bags on to powder rig trailer , employee felt a pain in his back .
ee was climbing a ladder to a screen to perform maintenance and lost his grip and fell backwards . the fall resulted in lacerations to the employee's head and lower leg . the employee was placed on modified duty on october 13th and returned to full duty on october 17th .
ee stated his right leg muscle started hurting and hurt worse as the shift went on .
the ee was bringing the mine loader to the office area . as he bent down , he slipped on the stairs and fell on them . the ee feels lots of pain in his lower back side and his right leg .
ee was climbing up a ladd4er & hit his knee
maintenance mechanic reports both left and right shoulder hurt . ee had surgery in 1976 on one and 1987 on the other one .
ee was picking up the buckets on swdf conveyor belt .
ee stated while jacking the rail over the jack flew out causing the jack bar he had a hold of to strike him on forehead .
an unintentional roof fall occured in the old 2c panel return at station 72+95 entry # 6. the fall did not affect ventilation , passage of men or cause pesonal injury . the fall measured 20'x20'x6'high . it will not be cleaned up .
ind . walked up sandy slope and fell in loose sand spraining left knee and dislocating left patella . traveled to medical clinic - x-rays were neg . follow-up has included an mri and orthopedist visit . orthopedist indicated that mri showed bone bruising and torn ligament associated with left patella . suggested rehabilitation on own and follow-up visit in 2 weeks .
ee was getting onto the mantrip to travel into the mine when he slipped and hit his left foot on the rib .
ee was using a lifting jack to put a supply motor back on the track and strained his back while applying pressure to the jack handle . ee worked regular duties until he sought medical attention on april 8 , 2010 and was taken off work .
employee's neck and shoulder was hurting from picking up auto tires with rt arm and placing themon the tire conveyer .
ee was operating the # 2 roof bolter . ee was on the helper side , he turned around scraping his left forearm on a bolt plate cutting his arm .
ee has hearing loss under south dakota worker's comp . ee laid off due to mine closure .
ee states while moving portable heater he felt pain in right side of chest . we do not feel this is a work-related incident . ( a-fibrillation ; blood clot on heart . )
employee went to use blow off station . when he turned on the toggle switch it shorted out causing the ee to receive an electrical shock & burns to his rt . thumb .
while using cutting toch hot material lended on table where he was resting his arm the steady the torch . it burned thru his clothing causing 2nd degree burns to elbow . went to urgent care wher e they cut away skin and applied ointment and baandages .
ee was replacing a defective door handle on the change room door . as he pulled the assembly apart a sharp piece of the mechanism cut the palm ofhis left hand . the laceration was just below the index finger & required five ( 5 ) sutures to close
ee was removing a rotary sub to put the hammer sub onto drill . when he was winching sub out , the sub caught the end of the drill steel and tightened the winch line up causing rotary sub to pop out of deck , hitting the ee smashing his left hand against the carousel on drill .
3 east mains section at # 6 overcast-during construction of the overcast ee was helping another ee to lay cinder blocks . he felt pain in his lower back while lifting a cinder block .
ee was loading conveyor belt on a belt car and was using clamp ( rope dog ) to pull on the belt . the clamp slipped off the belt , causing an injury to his left shoulder . possible rotary cup damage to shoulder . he started missing work from this incident 09/07/2010 .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st south panel 2 at spad 4+00 in # 5 entry measuring 40 foot long by 18 foot wide by approximately 9 foot high . the area was bolted with 9 foot cable bolts and 5 foot fully grouted bolts .
ee was palletizing sandstone when he sustained pain in the right groin area . he was unable to work that day . the injury was not reported to his supervisor until 6:30 a.m. on monday , 9/27/04 . ee was sent to the doctor 9/27 & was released to perform light duty until next appt . in 2 weeks . ( 11/2/04 : ee saw surgeon ; will have hernia surgery in near future . )
ee was granted an award from wv worker's compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
a mantrip was traveling outby on the 2a at the end of their working shift . a scoop was traveling inby with a slinger duster attached to the front of the bucket . the mantrip was coming down a hill and hit the scoop causing numerous injuries to the employees in the mantrip .
a fall has occured 9 breaks inby # 15 headrive and 90 feet inby survey spad # 3947. fall is in # 8 entry , no effect on travel or ventilation , props set around fall area and dangered off . fall discovered at 10:20 am . fall is 110 feet long by 20 feet wide and 5 to 6 feet high .
ee stuck his truck in the fill area . in helping the dozer operator hook the tow cable he twisted his left knee .
ee states while doing duties he developed pain in his left hand and thumb . went to hospital , x-ray that was taken fails to demonstrate a fracture . however there appears to be a spur on the navicular part of the bone . thumb spica has created immobilization .
ee was assisting with excavation of new area for test drilling . coworker was operating excavator and hit a 35 ' pine tree , breaking it near ground . tree fell , striking ee on hard hat & knocking him unconscience . coworkers called for assistance ; ee regained conscienceness & was airlifted to hospital for further observation . ee was released from hospital at noon on 3/10/05 .
ee was cutting hole in 5 gallon plastic bucket , when the blade of the razor knife broke and he pulled the blade across the palm of his right hand . required 8 sutures to close .
ee was using a chain to tie up a rock by the jaw . hook slipped & ee hit chest area into catwalk rail , straining muscle .
ee was preparing to weld a dm45 drill jack pad on the bottom of the jack . he was moving the pad closer to the drill when he felt pain in his lower back . ee continued to work until 4/17/13 when he sought medical attention for pain in his back and leg . the doctor took him off work until 4/24/13 .
supervisor was checking operation of automatic sampler . while holding the retractable rod connecter to the sample container his hand was pulled towards the opening . given the manner he was grasping the rod , thumb pointing towards opening the sampler pulled his hand into the side injuring his thumb of rt . hand . initial first aid indicates possible stitches only .
mashed thumb between pivot points of motorbase , when loading it on crane . mashed thumb nail cut open skin above thumb nail . went to hospital doctor deadened thumb and inserted six stitches . bu rnt two holes in nail to relieve pressure . back at work - 11:00 am .
ee was operating fuel truck when he reached over to get material from seat lost control and drove into a ditch . the truck turned slightly onto its side . the ee was not wearing seat belt and struck top of his head , resulting in a laceration requiring seven staples .
31b concentrate reject conveyor became over loader with chunks . ee had to climb into discharge chute and toss out frost chunks . had to reenter chute and misjudged distance and fractured .
employee was off work due to sickness . ee later came back and said worker's comp had ruled him being off was comperable from pulling on racket , tightening bolt on final drive of dozer , hurt ri ght side . we thought he was off sick is the reason for late report .
ee was walking down the ramp to the # 2 cooler pit to repair a water pump . he slipped fall back onto another miner bumping his right elbow on the concrete floor .
while stringing high voltage cable , the cable fell and hit ee in back causing bruising and a strain . ee has been off work since occurence but is hoping to be finished with physical therapy and go back to work in a few more days .
roof fall , 2 west entry # 5 xc 34 , straight across from fall in # 7 entry , 30'x40'x12'hi , already cribbed and dangered off , before it fell , known bad top
walked back to the spud to put sand on it . stepped on the man hole cover & it gave way . ee fell through & right knee hit the side of the man hole .
100 % disabled due to pneumoconioses .
ee slipped and fell in a mud hole as he walked around the rear of the parts sled . lost time injury as of november 17 .
a roof fall 120 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' thick occurred 200 ' inby spad # 4326 in the bleeder system . the area was bolted with 4 ' fully grouted roof bolts . the area is taking pressure due to undermining .
ee was bolting in # 3 heading around 1:15 pm . ee was attempting to push a roof bolt into the top when ee's bolt wrench kicked out of drill pot and struck ee's left hand .
ee hit right shoulder on rib on 1/6/07 . worked until he had surgery on 4/6/07 .
ee was opening a set of air-lock equipment doors located at # 24 crosscut along the main east haulage roadway . he was standing against the north rib when a piece of rock 10 '' x 10 '' x 4 '' thick fe ll our from between the rib and permanent roof supports . the rock struck him on the head and ne ck causing sprain/strain injury to his cervicle spine .
employee was knocked down by the air rush from apillar fall .
while removing a piece of rebar from screen chute as he was lifting and turning the rebar caught screen stopping his motion causing him to feel a pain in his back .
the ee was standing on a 41 '' high conveyor frame using a torch to remove the walkway and handrails . the frame was positioned on the ground . while the ee was repositioning himself his foot slipped off the structure and went under on of the cross members . ee fell backwards , was upside down by 1 leg . ee sprained ankle and severe contusion to lower leg/sprained hip .
employee had backed rock truck in to be loaded when a large rock rolled out of the spoil pile & struck the truck on the left rear tire . ee was thrown into steering wheel & door , injuring his rt . shoulder .
as an employee was exiting the admin building , they tripped and fell . the employee felt pain in their left wrist . on 8-26-13 it was determined the the employee's wrist was fracured .
ee was lowering a slab of sandstone to the ground when he pinched his left middle finger between ground and the stone slab . dr. diagnosis : laceration & contusion left middle finger . ee lost 3 work days .
while trying to clean right side mirror of haul truck # 3 , employee slipped and fell about 57 in . to the ground . the right side step had been removed for repair and instead of using a ladder to get to the mirror , employee tried to walk across the haul truck's front bumper and a set of chock blocks . ee stepped on a chock block , which moved , and ee fell .
an unintentional fire occurred at the mine rescue building , the building was a complete loss . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8442550 ) , was issued by msha inspector .
ee was carrying a crib block and tripped over another crib block laying on the mine floor . cause of injury was awareness and keeping walkways clear . compliance with rules/regs was not a factor . personnal equip/items not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equp/systems not a factor .
the ee was shoveling accumulations from the walkway onto the main north belt as he was shovelingthe shovel hit the mine roof then struck the ( top ) moving belt pushing the shovel into his chest and twisting his right shoulder .
carried vibrator up the stairs to baghouse 2 and placed it on the beam by hopper 2. relocate himself to the other side of the opening and lifted it off the beam . felt a `` pop '' in his back .
a roof fall occurred in the main west . the fall is located at 31 xc intersection , # 5 entry . the fall measures 40 feet long , 16 feet 6 inches wide , and 10 feet high .
employee was riding on a mantrip when they ran over a rock or hit a hole in the roadway and he twisted his back .
hit left index finger with sledge hammer , taking a stering cylinder off haul truck
the # 8 elevator stopped within 12 inches of the top landing with one passenger on the car . the car showed overspeed fault . the rope gripper set and locked the car out on fault . the passenger was stuck for 5 minutes . the car was reset and tested . the agencies were notified . the elevator returned to service at 3:45am
ee was pulling a strainer basket out of the feed pump filter pot when his right shoulder popped . he felt a sharp pain .
injured employee was roof bolting on the left side of the continuous miner on the 1 north mains section . he states he was struck by the atrs pad causing him to be knocked into the machine resulting in a bruise to his right knee . this incident was not deemed reportable until 7/15/2013 .
victim was standing between roof bolter and roofbolter cable and when the cable reel was engaged the cable jerked and knocked him into the frameof the machine .
employee was assisting two other employees with the removal of a cleanout door on the discharge side of a 10 '' pump , in an attempt to unplug the line . they were not aware that there was a buildup of hot water and steam in the pipe behind the door . as he was removing the bolts , the door broke free and the sudden escape of steam and water burned the employee on the left forearm .
ee was reaching behind his seat for his hard hatwhen he claims to have slid his finger along a piece of plywood and a sliver of the wood becamelodged under his fingernail . he was examined two days following the incident , the finger was injected w/anesthetic and the sliver was removed .
employee stepped down from a loader into a hole in the ground causing him to twist his ankle and fall . contributing factors were that the employee did not check the ground condition before ste pping off the machine and an uneven surface condition . injury involves sprained ankle with torn ligaments .
had an unintentional roof fall in main west return at xc 4 . did not impede travel or affect ventilation . was reported to msha at 9:00pm
ee was leaving supervisor's office3 walking towards service room ee slipped on icy area & fell
going to # 2 cooler pit to obtain sample lime got in eyes causing irration
ee was using a permanenct installed 240 volt cutoff saw to cut 1 '' cold roll round bar . as he was cutting final piece as the blade of the saw mad final penetration of the metal the rod kicked b ack and the sharp edge struck # 4 and # 5 fingers on left hand . ( 11 total stitches )
ee mashed his right thumb by the cam shaft inside the gearbox when the boom was raised on the 9196 roof bolter . this required 6 stitches .
ee was using a hammer and screwdriver to split a bolt ring from a plug . he missed the screwdriver and struck his left thumb . medical treatment injury .
ee was pulling a concrete come-a-long to remove clinker spillage . he was on both knees as close to his work as he could get . he had been working in this location for approx one hour when he felt a pain in his abdomen . he reported it to his supervisor and to first aid station .
employee inadvertantly stepped in front of # 14 shield as it was advancing and caught his right foot between the shield toe and relay bar and fell forward jamming his left shoulder . diagnosed with a hairline fracture to the 3rd metatarsal .
ee loaded his tool box on jeep and felt back pain . man was seen at occ health a few days later and has worked restricted duty since . he is scheduled for an mri this week , 1/4/10 . accident not reported till 12/7/09 .
ee claims that he pulled a muscle in his lower back when he lifted a 50 lb bag of lime from the bag weight scale . he declined to seek medical treatment at the time of the incident . he was seen at pro med clinic on 6/3/03 and released to light duty .
patient was cutting a tree & when it fell it made contact with another tree causing 1st tree to kick back knocking ee down & pinning him to the ground . employer freed ee & transported him to l ogan general hospital by private vehicle . patient did not receive any on scene emt treatment .
employee was changing rigging on a box beam that was to be carried to hoisting bay . beam was lowered to floor by rough terrain fork lift . beam rested on rods through the beam holding anvil beams . the box beam slipped 1 '' to 2 '' on the rods resulting in pinch point between the shackle and box beam . tip of employees right idex finger was pinched requiring 4 stitches .
roof fall in northwest mains # 2 entry ( 2 breaks inby spad # 130 ) measuring 5 ' thick x 100 ' long x 16 ' wide .
employee was stockpiling sand with a 980 loader . he felt a pain his back . he reported to his supervisor but did not want medical help . on 5/12/08 he went to the hospital with back pains . he was placed off work . our insurance carrier investigated to make sure it was a work comp . case . grsg had personal changes and overlooked the time to file .
ee was removing rocks from the belt of the crusher . his left hand struck a piece of sharp metal , causing laceration .
a rock was lodged between the tailgate and the bed of the truck . pulled the locking pin , the bolder dislodged and tailgate dropped . he thought his hand was clear of the latch , but it was not . skin on r finger was torn , and required stitches to repair . no days lost . came right back to work the same day after repair .
during blood lead level testing it was revealed that ee blood lead was 54 .
ee was drilling test hole and laid his hand on boom of roof bolter and raised the boom up catching his rt . 2nd finger on the rt . hand .
ee slipped & felt pain in left knee .
ee was cutting a 24 inch i-beam with a torch . he backed up so another ee could knock it apart with a cat 318 c ln excavator with shear attachment . when the other ee hit the beam it kicked up and fell on ee's leg .
ee was using hammer to strike metal strap to take sleeve off a pipe . ee struck his left thumb causing a laceration which required stitches .
roof fall at spad # 22512 , 3 brks outby in intake . brk 20 of old 6 f belt . this fall is a continuation of one in return . it was bolted with 6 ' torque-tension bolts . fall was approx . 90 ' x 80 ' x 7 ' thick and will not be cleaned up . fall is approx . 2,525 ' from face of # 001 section . this fall was reported by fire boss .
employee was operating/driving a forklift to the laydown yard . while in route a bee flew under his safety glasses and stung him in the right cornea of his eye causing an ulcerated infection .
employee stated ee was shoveling material onto the belt when ee felt a pop in the right shoulder . employee sought medical attention on 1-30-2018 and was placed off work .
while remounting an electric motor onto the screener , were positioning the motor when it fell off the screenner hitting ee and sliding down his body as he fell ont he floor .
a dozer operator was pushing coal cleanings into a berm in a drilling and blasting area . while backing to reposition , the operator misjudged her distance from the crest and backed off the highwall . the dozer fell approximately 33 feet onto a slough pile . the operator was dignosed with one ruptured disc .
a fully trained miner was unloading a jack from a man bus when ee caught finger between the bus and the jack resulting in 5 stitches . the accident was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
employee stated he was building a crib along the track . whiel building this crib he turned to pick up his ax . this action caused him to turn his left ankle and knee .
ee was bolting when he started drilling a hole a piece of rock broke loose catching his little finger between the rock and the drillpot .
torquing bolts on push blade when fingers were caught betwee the blade and the acuator for the pneumatic torque wrench causing fracture and laceration requiring stitches to two fingers .
employee was dragging screen down the longwall face when he felt pain in lower abdomen . he sought medical treatment on 6-1-05 .
was operating fletcher rr2 roof bolter when a rock of approx . 10 # s fell out of roof and hit injured in left hand and fingers cutting big middle finger needing stitches .
ee was handing block to another ee when he slipped on the slick mine floor and strained his back .
operator left cat d8n dozer to speak to another operator in trackhoe . he was standing near pile of dirt and trackhoe when approx 55-gal looking clump of dirt rolled from pile striking left sid e , hip area resulting in left pelvic fracture and abrasions to left arm .
the deskins `` b '' shaft automatic elevator would not operate due to loose wire to the regulator .
ee and co-workers were installing heat exchanger chain in rotary cement kiln . ee complained of discomfort due to tight , sore back muscles , alledgedly from handling the heavy chain strands . he was seen by a physician and released to return to work with no restrictions . on his own volition , he took one day off from work .
step off of exavator on lo low boy and rolled ankles .
ee clamed that he hit a rut while operating his shuttle car causing an injury to his lower back , hip area . the ee did not report the injury to his foreman during his shift - called in the next day before his shift started .
a roof fall occured on # 3a belt in the # 3 entry outby spad # 1110. the size of the fall was approx . 90 ft long 20 ft wide and 4 ft high . the area was developed approx . 1970 and rebolted in 1996 . the fall was approx . 7000 ft from active face .
emp . was removing side liners on # 4 loesche mill ( raw mill ) seal with 8mm allen wrench . while loosening bolt , wrench slipped causing emp . rt . hand to strike edge of mill roll . laceration approx . 3 '' long required 14 stitches .
employee waslifting a barrel of grease to the back of the buggy . the dump bed of the buggy was not latched so the bed lifted , dumping the barrel of grease onto employee's right shin and foot . skinned the shin , required three stitches .
ee stopped his truck to give a miner a hand lining up vent pipe . as he stepped up on the scoop he slipped . he then turned and jumped to the ground .
employee became ill while weighing customer trucks . 911 was called immediately , msha number was also called . ee was transported to iredell hospital , was diagnosed with 2 tumors on his brain . the tumors triggered a seizure which is what ee suffered in the quarry office . *this is not a reportable injury however we are reporting because we called the 800 number as a precaution .
emoloyee was lifting his tailgate on his truck it slipped out of his hand striking his right knee . he started missing work on 10/20/05 .
ee was working on broken hanger on kiln 1 east fine screw . damper was not closed and air causedclinker dust to be blown into left eye .
internal audit found need to report . while walking ee slipped on some material he caught himself on handrail however twisted his ankle doing so .
roof fall was discovered by th air coarse examiner in old 4 east x # 2 between 1 - 2 room outby 1 xcut & between 2-3 room at the 1st xcut & oubty 1 x cut . area was bolted with 6.5 bolts 3 piece & 8 ' cable bolts . the fall was above the bolt ankorage . the area is being secured by cribbing & timber and abandoned .
the employee reported the following alleged incident . he and another miner were lifting a spool . while lifting , he claims that he strained a muscle in his shoulder . did not report the incident for 4 days . the following were not a factor : rules , regs , mining equip or systems , protective devices on equip or clothing , skills , proficiency or training . attitude may have been a factor .
in 14th west pillar section in the # 5 entry a roof fall occurred at approximately 12:45 pm . it fell 18 ' wide x 31 ' long x 6 ' high . 5 ' resin bolts were installed during development . the cave buried two mobile roof supports . there were no injuries . two msha inspectors had been in the section observing mining prior to the fall .
mechanics were working on a continuous miner , using a sledge hammer and a driving bar . ee walked beside the work area . hammer glanced off bar striking man above right eye .
loading the anfo from the magazine into the shot truck , the bag slipped out of co-worker's hands coming down on ee's left arm .
this 7000-1 is being submitted in response to citation # 7116747 issued on 7/10/12 . following an investigation , the operator is not in agreement with msha that an immediately reportable methane ignition occurred . while preforming routine cutting / welding operations on the 19a tailgate shearer drum near shield # 22 , a small fire occurred which was immediately extinguished .
ee and co-workers were replacing drag conveyor chain . ee used his hand to align a length of chain and felt his left index finger pinched . he suffered a bone fracture .
while descending the conveyer tunnel at the calciner he tripped over his foot jamming his wrist , knuckle of small finger on right hand ( bruised ) .
ee was working in muddy conditions and strained his upper left leg . note : this injury was reported on 2-13-01 at the end of shift . examining dr. diagnosed and restricted duty on 2-14-01 .
ee was hosing down in the autoclave , she slipped on the wet floor and fell , landing on right knee , left knee hyperextended . ee felt pain in left knee . referred to orthopedist and was put restricted duty and an mri is ordered .
ee was cutting a coupler in half with a band saw , he turned the saw on and the blade caught and kicked up . when it kicked up , it came down and cut the ee's finger .
unplanned roof fall occurred in sub-mains `` a '' panel off of 1st nw panel bk # 4. fall was approximately 25 ' in length x 19 ' wide x 14 ' to 16 ' high . date of development was may 2009. no injuries , entrapment or equipment involved .
ee was attempting to open the door on powder trkhe reached down with his left hand for the doorhandle but didnt pull hard enough to open the door . he then reached with his right hand for the t ottom corner of door & pulled as he held the handle with his left hand & when he pulled his right hand was very near exhaust guard his hand struck the guard causing a laceration
the employee was demoing some ( rmc ) ridgid metal conduit during a weekend shutdown . the employee used tru-trape to support one end of the conduit while he cut a strap loose with a reciprocating saw . the tru tape broke , causing the rmc to fall on one end and the other end to raise up catching his arm between the rmc and a angle iron brace cutting left arm .
during ee shift on 4/9 he was jarred while being loaded by the shovel . he called his supervisor to report the incident , but did not want to be taken in . on 4/10 during the shift ee reported to his supervisor that he was experiencing some tenderness and discomfort in his neck . he also statc that he wanted to be taken in to be check . he was taken to the clinic . he wa taken off work
pressure from abutement caused a section of the entry on the longwall tailgate to close . distance was approx . 5'in length . this blocked access of tailgate . immediate roof material .
holding drill steel while drilling top , when a piece of draw rock fell striking his rt . hand .
ee was trying to stop the shuttle car and he caught his right foot between the shuttle car frame and rib .
the hoistman checking overtravel shutoffs when the overtravel ( at mine level ) not reset . overtravel on lilly controller still operable . electrician went underground , reset the magntic overtravel switch by running magnet over the switch , it worked fine from then on . there was no damage , physical or electrical and the hoist was put back in regular operation at 5:00pm .
ee had the inspection door raised over the hydraulic tank in the upright position . a gust of wind blew the door down and struck him on the tip of his middle finger on left hand crushing and breaking the bone in the tip of his finger .
ee was pulling on a pry-bar and felt pain in shoulder .
power outage causing lsi belt to stop . gate valve failed to close which caused the lsi belt to start on fire from the heat from the kiln .
# 3 top station - ee was attempting to align an empty powder truck with the conveyance to load it , slid the truck around by grabbing and moving with his hands . unaware the forks of the lift truck were close . ee caught `` r '' hand between powder truck and fork on forklift . laceration ( 4 sutures ) to back of `` r '' hand .
2:55am employee was short of breath with chest discomfort . 9ll was called and 3:30am ambulance arrived onsite . 3:45am we received a call that another ems responder was on the way . at this point we knew the situation was life threatening and msha was notified at 3:56am . by 6:30am we were informed of the employee's death .
associate was rebuilding a pallet - twisted - felt something in the back muscle . did not report as work related . dr. asked for more information on 8/24/04 & stated it was work related - a severe muscle pull - requested an mri which occurred on 9/2/04 . waiting on results from that .
ee was walking alongside the railroad track to the next car when he stumbled in the sand . ee tried to stop his fall by stretching out his arms.when he landed he fractured his wrist .
ee was stacking bags on pallet , when he hurt his lower back monday , did not ask to go to the doctor till thursday 8-16-07 .
ee was operating a 777c rock truck . he got out of truck & walked to the back of truck to check suspension cylinder . the ground was snow covered & frozen , his feet slipped & he fell on his righ t shoulder .
ee was letting down basket in change room , when he looked up , mud and dirt in basket fell into right eye . ee was taken to company doctor and prescribed an antibiotic , making this reportable .
while unloading bolts and plates out of a scoop bucket onto the bolter , employee picked up 5 to 6 bolts took one step back into a hole forcing his left knee backward . note : operations were idl e from 12/21/02 thru 1/2/03 . report is within 10 day limit .
injured & another ee were changing valves on the bottom of the middle low pressure heaters . the middle valve is the one they were working on when the wedge that was being installed flew out and hit ee's head . he was wearing the proper ppe . he was taken to medical dept . then to st. james hospital . he received 12 stitches and returned to work with restrictions .
ee was attempting to remove a piece of rock that had gotten lodged in the dolly . the rock fell onto the ee's thumb smashing it between the rock and a piece of steel .
ee filed for hearing loss . recd notice 10/9/00
ee was working on a pump . the impeller was full of material . ee was using a pipe wrench to work the pump back & forth to free impeller . ee didn't report this until 10/22/01 . saw chiropractor .
ie was tying in a ramp on the spoil side . ie was moving from n-s on spoil side . ie felt the ground give away dozer started to slide . ie immediately lowered the blade , dozer continued to slide and eventually rolled over coming to a rest on the tracks . ie removed seatbelt and dismounted dozer emergency response team members arrived on scene and transported to hospital for examination
roof fall b entry , 2.5 south c @ @ @ 18+75 . approx 30 ' long x 25 ' wide and 14'high . gray shale and sandstone .
we know of no conditions that contributed to an occupational illness ( employee's physician had diagnosed interstitial lung disease which he believed to be consistent with silicosis , although c ompany disputes this due to lack of exposure to silica on the job site ) .
electricity from our power company had dropped out a couple of times throughout the morning . each time all power was reset . at 10:30am the power dropped again , but the koepe hoist took longer to reset/recover . employees were evacuated from the mine via the production hoist . koepe was operational at 12:30pm .
roof bolter operator was spinning a roof bolt to mix the resin . the bolt plate struck or rubbed against the steel mat and caused heat or sparks . the bolter helper observed a yellowish flame th at lasted an estimated 4 seconds . the operator did not see the flame . work was stopped and the scene secured . msha was notified . an investigation began when msha inspectors arrived .
pulling tailpiece with scoop . chain broke , hitting ee in chest and shoulder .
ee picked up haul truck with load , tried to dumpit but the load placement did not allow truck todump . ee backed into a small ditch & dumped loadas the bed was raising the front of the truck ro se up . when load dumped , the truck's front end came back down causing her chest to hit steeringwheel .
drilling holes with a highwall drill to prepare a shot when one of the holes started having smoke and heat coming out of it . could not extinguish in 30 minutes .
the ee was repairing a power ram that was jammed in the extended position . he tapped the end with a hammer and the piston retracted pinching his left thumb . a piece of tissue was avulsed from the palmer side of the thumb . the wound was debrided and cauterized at the emergency room .
at approximately 5:10 am on 07/24/2008 am the kiln operator noticed a spike in the temperatures in the coal mill . a piece of metal had entered with the coal causing a fire . the operator shut off the air supply , called the fire department and notified msha . the fire was contained in the coal mill and was extinguished soon after .
on 3/6/14 ie went to another ee and said his left thumb seemed to ache but 'only ' when he drove the forklift . other ee told him to stay off the forklift and asked if he wanted to go to dr. ie replied 'no ' . on 3/12/14 ie told other ee he wanted to go to the dr. as his thumb seemed to be aching more . ie said he had con't to drive the forklift .
employee stated ee was helping splicing a belt and pinched finger in the belt clamp
a fall of the roof occurred at # 6 - # 7 xcut # 1 entry of 1st main west entry . bolted with 72 inch fully grouted pins .
ee was operating end - dump truck when he hit a bad spot in haul road . he jammed shoulder and elbow against truck .
ee was putting stinger rod in for the wire linerhe got it to high & could not hold on to it . when it started to fall he held onto it & when the rod struck the ground it pulled his hand into th e drill frame smashing his left ring finger .
coal fire located in east pit . no mine personnel or facilities were at risk at any time , the nearest mine equipment ( hitachi excavator 951 ) was approximately 1200 yards away . suspected cause was spontaneous combustion . fire was controlled within 2 hours , fire watch continued no evidence of fire on may 25 , 2016 , 09:00am .
ee was helping install a screen plate at the rotary breaker bldg . a comealong was attached to the screen so it could be lifted . while lifting the screen into the breaker 1 side got hung up 2 ee's pushed the screen to help realign it at which time screen came loose from comealong striking arm of ee as hit the ground .
the employee stated that while drilling a roof bolt hole , the drill steel started to bend , as he reached out to grab hold of the drill steel , he accidentally put up pressure on the steel which caught his left hand between the drill steel and the bolt mast . the accident was caused by the failure of the employee to drop the drill mast instead of lifting it . the ee had on his ppe .
employee's shift began at 7:00 p.m. on 5/30/2008 . employee fell off of the ladder onto a shovel during shift change . ee was released to full duty on 6/12/08 . ee returned to clinic on 6/25/08 and was not allowed to return to work until further tests are performed .
miner was getting bolts for next row , when a rock fell from the roof , striking him on the left leg , just above the knee . he went to dr , and was released modified duty with a deep bruise .
while stepping off of a back hoe , employee stepped on a rock resulting in twisting and breaking his ( l ) fibula .
ee was hanging magnet on beltline and fell injuring his right shoulder . ee has a two week no overtime restriction .
employee was walking down the side bank of the pit and stepped on loose material and twisted his knee . he was going to work on a pit pump . employee thought his knee would get better on it's own . on 8/16/05 he requested to go to the doctor and he received a prescription for the inflamation .
employee was climbing a fixed ladder and foot slipped off the fourth ground causing ee to fall 10ft .
employee was bending a stick of rebar and it brake causing him to lose his balance and hyper extend his left knee . employee felt pain in left knee
employee was dumping a hopper into a dumpster . employee triggered the release with his hand while standing next to the hopper . the hopper tilted forward to dump and bounced back . when the hopper came back , the employee's finger was pinched between the hopper frame and tow motor . the employee's finger-tip was broken and lacerated . the finger required 7 stitches to close the wound .
injured party was beside the scoop where he had been loading blocks into the scoop bucket . he had his right hand lying up on the scoop bucket behind the stinger when the operator shut scoop off & accidently hit the lever with his knee getting out of scoop . the scoop bucket came back & caught the ring finger on the right hand at the end of the finger .
employee was traveling in return when he found a roof fall , 2 breaks inby spad no 1827 inno 2sw mains . the fall is 20 ft long by 20 ft wide by 7 ft hi . the fall is 10,000 ft from the face
employee received an impact eye injury while chipping slag after welding . ee returned to work same day , however he did receive a prescription .
employee was setting roof support ( rock prop ) for support recovery ( longwall ) roof support kicked out while setting and struck employee on his left ankle .
a piece of steel fell and bruised his rt . thigh .
while prying with pry bar at the 4x8 '' chute , unloading rock from the chute , another rock hit barthen hit employee's right wrist .
ee stood up and felt a pain in his left ankle . eh did not strike or bump anything . didn't twist or catch anything with his foot . he says that there were no problems prior with his ankle and su pervisor is not aware of any problem . diagnosed with achilles tendon and put on modified duty . it is not known what caused injury .
ee was moving a rock & twisted his back .
employee was hooking chain through belt when he twisted his body causing pain in lowr right back . employee first shift missed due to incident was 4-23-00. employee was diagnosed as having a herniated disc .
employee was going into the supervisor's change room , slipped , fell and hit her head and shoulder on a notice box mounted on the the outside wall . this jarred her neck . she was taken to the dr , diagnosed with a strain , then went the er and taken off work until 4/13 . currently ongoing .
ee was packing 50 lb bags . he was close to emptying the bin when a bag blew up on # 3 packer . he was patting the bag at the time . when it blew up it threw product into his left eye . ee was wearing safety glasses at the time . he was taken to e.r . where they irrigated eye and released him .
an unintentional fall of the roof was discovered on the 1 right tail section panel in the # 3 entry at spad # 90 cross cut # 42. the fall was approximately 18ft . x 18ft . and 7 feet high . this was in the bleeder entry and will not be cleaned up .
ee removing bearing from pulley using punch , small piece broke and metal hit left side of chest causing minor laceration . ee treated and returned to work same day of incident .
while cutting a piece of 1 plate for a bed cable hook , ee attempted to remove the template when the ee's hand got caught between template & saw horse causing injury to left hand . ee taken to er and taken off work for 1 day .
ee was inspecting screw conveyor . as ee was putting the lid back on the screw , the lid slipped out of his hand , he lost his balance , and put his hand into hot dust . some of the hot dust got inside his glove . thus , the ee was burned .
employee was using a 4 '' grinder equipped with a mataubo blade cutting up 4 '' galvanized 'c ' channel . the bench had an accumulation of dust on it . a gust of wind blew dust up under his face shield into his right eye .
operator of scrapper that ran over a co-worker and killed him on 2-8-00. operator had been suffering from stress related problems associated with this event . on 3-14 he reported a work related ilness for stress .
employee ( ee ) was greasing the loader at the start of shift . ee reported he ducked under the boom arms and felt a pop in his lower back . ee said he 'd like to see how it felt in a few days before he went to clinic . ee went to clinic 11/05/15 , diagnosed with lower back strain . physical therapy ordered w/ no restrictions . released from care 11/17/15
while sliding a piece of steel off of the welding table one of the iron supporting blocks under the plate steel fell from the table and struck the ee just behind the steel toe on his right foot .
ee deposited a pallet of product in storage area with a forklift . when backing up , he and another forklift backed into each other rear-end to rear-end . the other lift driver , not injured , said they did not watch where they were going - equal negligence . injured ee's hat was knocked off , he felt discomfort in his neck and left work an hour later . he is now in doctor's care .
ee was using a flip hopper mounted on a forklift to dump trash in a large waste container . when the hopper was tipped , it rocked backward pinching ee's left pinky finger , resulting in a laceration and fracture of the tip of the finger .
injured was helping work on # 4 diesel manbus when the motor cover fell and hit injured right hand . injured was taken to hospital , nothing broke .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at the alloy powellton mine in the # 6 entry , near spad # 717 that measured approximately 30 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . no injuries were reported . the area was developed on 3-25-10 .
ee was standing on dragline boom box arc gouging . molten metal traveled down right leg and settled in right boot burning right foot .
ee stated while picking up belt structure he felt pain in left shoulder .
ee states that wrench slipped off nut when he was tightening a spring elbow slammed into side of equipment .
employee states while removing 4 bolts that hold the cable tensioner unit in place on a link belt crane the unit suddenly moved striking employee on his left hand .
employee was installing light fixture in bagging/loading bathroon . used bolt to secure an end of 8 ' light fixture while preparing to secure the other end . the bolt worked off this allowing the fixture to fall which struck the employee .
ee was cleaning up by hand around plant , pitched a rock into a chute , missed , tried to catch rock , rock fell on little finger .
during the process of signaling to guide assembly into place on platform , he placed his left hand between a stationary i-beam and the bolts extruding from the lock retainer , creating a pinch p oint which resulted in injury to left hand .
on 04/16/16 , the ee was welding , a spark flew back from a burning torch , it burned through ee's jeans causing it to burn ee's knee . on 04/17/16 ee had to go to a clinic , they sent ee to er at hcmc , where they gave ee an antibiotic . ee returned to full time duty 04/21/16 .
ee alleges that act of getting into and out of maintenance pu truck ( chevy silverado ) not equipped w/running board resulted in recurring sciatic type pain radiating from right buttock to right calf . ee requested treatment on 1/25/10 .
ee was inside of shield changing hose when the shields on either side was put on ram and the jaack raised up mashing his right knee between the ram jack and ram tunnel .
ee was pulling cake bin out from filter press & slipped on organic . felt pull in pubic area .
member was getting the lid off of a can of neverseize and then razor knife slipped cutting his index finger on right hand .
he was pulling miner cable out of the way in the roadway on the 003-0 section . his back started hurting him . he continued to work unti 7/22/04 . he went to the doctor then . he saw a specialist on 8/2/04 and mri was scheduled .
a roof fall has occurred on the 002 section in the # 4 entry on 2g beltline at spad number 19175.the fall measured 20 ' wide by 30 ' long by 48 ' thick . ventilation or passage of men not affected . no equipment involved and no injuries reported . area will be rehabilitated .
ee was assisting in bringing digester unit back on line . he opened up the 300 # steam valve using a valve wrench . after completion , he picked up his 8 # sledge hammer with his right hand and felt pain in his right shoulder . ee received a medication injection on 8/25/12 .
end of shift 3/14 , employee lifted tool bag out of truck and felt strain in his stomach . morning of 3/15 employee reported incident from 3/14 . he indicated his stomach was still hurting and had a knot . he was sent to local clinic . clinic physician confirmed several days later injury was in fact work related after conversations with lafarge and specialist . surgery 3/30 to correct .
quote : '' during the week i was fighting with the company over matters with the fmla . the company was penalizing me and possibly terminating me while under the fmla . there is an open case with th e labor board . '' - employee
east 2 right , block 14 , entry 2 , mmu oo7 , 4-way intersection . 20'long x 18'wide x 10'high . type of support : cable bolts , 6'3/4 '' resin , roof mats , wire screen . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee was using a 4 inch hand held grinder , with a cutting disc , to cut a piece of angle iron . the cutting disc became lodged in the cut and broke apart . two broken pieces contacted the employee's le , causing cuts .
employee was conducting scheduled cleaning of plant . ee was using a general purpose hammer to clear dried material off the conveyor frame . as ee hit the frame , the hammer ricocheted off striking ee's opposite ( left ) pinky finger . ee received a laceration and was taken to the clinic . ee did not receive sutures however , ee was prescribed an antibiotics .
repairman ee was ont of four repairman assigned to repair the mag plant ferman press on 9-26-02. at approx . 1100 am while removing the top north pick-up beam with fellow repairman , other , ee r eported he felt a sharp pain in his right groin area . medical treatment revealed a right groin strain and one day restricted duty until rechecked on 9-28-02 and full release to work on 9/29/0
ee stated while in the process of drilling outside hole in # 2 left crosscut , was adding a piece of drill steel when a rock fell from the top striking him on his left hand catching his middle finger between rock and drill pot . ee sustained an avulsion and fracture to the tip of his middle finger . ee was wearing metacarpal gloves .
the 002 section had pillared 5 rows without an initial fall . the crew noticed that a fall was impending and moved and timbered the equipment to a safe location . the fall rode through the breaker timbers 1crosscut inby spad 1291 appx . 70 ' x 20'w x 10 ' high . msha was present at the time of the fall .
ee had been cleaning up a cement spill with a shovel and at times a vacuum . he states that he began to notice pain in his lower left abdomen on his way home . he was sent for an evaluation the morning of 10-21-03 and returned to work the same day on restricted duty for one week .
employee has worked in maintenance for bgmi for 17 yrs . began feeling some pain and discomfort in november 2004 , which has gradually gotten worse . right hand is painful radiating to index , middle and ring fingers ; middle finger locks up as in a case of trigger finger . received cortizon shot on 03/25/05 in which this became reportable .
ee went to see the dr on 4/12 and was placed on restricted work duty . while getting out to load truck , left foot slipped off bottom step , ee fell and landed on right thigh and right hand .
a fall of roof occured in the west main entries x-cut 38 in the # 3 entry . outby the unit & the area was developed 9/21/98 . the area was supported with 6ft fully grouted bolts
employee was helping to change blow bars on the impact crusher . left wrist was caught between the blow bar and the blow bar holder tool . employee was diagnosed with a left wrist contusion/bruise . during follow up appointment on 07/13/2016 ee was referred to physical therapy by the treating physician's assistant .
while operating the crane , the employee turned off the heater disconnect switch and when he pulled down on the switch his hand contacted part of the disconnect box resulting in a laceration on his hand . he recieved 7 stitches on his left hand .
the injured employee was pulling the end of a conveyor belt with channellocks when he felt pain in his left shoulder .
installing of dewey dag bolt-ee tossed dewey dag driver toward the rib , in doing so driver bounced back and struck right thumb .
ee was traveling down ramp , he was unable to maintain control and sideswiped the highwall at the bottom of the ramp .
while ee was walking in muddy condtions doing mine examinations , ee experienced pain in back .
while installing walkway and handrail on a coal silo , a section of hand rail fell 8 ft. strikingemployee on left shoulder , bruising shoulder . he finished shift .
ee was using a 4 lb . shop hammer and a 1 3/4 '' combination wrench to loosen nuts on coal mill bowl.ee struck the wrench with the hammer and this caused the wrench to bounce up and strike ee on top of his left hand .
employee was driving up the ramp and began to feel light-headed and dizzy . ee stopped truck and called supervisor and got out of truck until help could arrive
hitting ratchet with 3 lb hammer , it kicked back hitting his thumb and bending it back out of the socket .
ee opened his truck door to get out of the truck . the door struck the loadout platform framework and bounced back , striking his right knee and causing a bruised knee .
employee was a passenger in the mantrip when it ran into a rib while sliding thru a curve . passenger hit his head on the front plate of mantrip . per procedure employee was life flighted to hospital . no injury was reported .
ee was climbing onto loader . his left foot was on a step and his hands on the handrails . his left hand slipped from the hand rail causing him to fall backward onto his right foot twisting his back . initial chiropractic diagnosis from ee's privated dr. indicated compressed disks . further medical examination disporves this initial diagnosis .
employee was walking at the plant facilities , a cornerstone of the crane collapsed , hitting the employee directly to the body and falling down . employee was wearing safety equipment as required ( capacete ) . received multiple injuries to the upper and lower body .
the crusher was out of adjustment . ee went to put in return rotor and plate flew back and hit his thumb .
employee was operating a continuous miner when a shuttle car struck the waterline that is connected to that continuous miner . this resulted in the waterline bursting and spraying downs on the face . this caused some foreign particle to enterhis left eye . medical treatment was received and prescription medication given .
foot slipped off stairway and ee fractured left hand and arm .
injury occurred on 5-7-01. i was informed on 5-15-01. this was the first day of lost time . the ee returned to work on 5-17-01. i have enclosed a copy of the injury report from the health care facility .
when the roofbolter cable started to reel up , the cable hit employee in the back of the head and neck .
it was reported to mgmt . that a blue/orange flame was observed for a short duration of 1-2 seconds and self extinguished . this occurence took place at # 46 shield , 1-a longwall face . investigat ion revealed there were sulfur deposits in the face .
employee claims his back started hurting after lifting form panels . did not report in timely manner . went to dr and is off work from 6/25 on .
a roof fall was discovered on the old spruce west section in the # 1 entry @ spad # 9060. the dimensions of this fall are : 90 ' ( l ) x 20 ' ( w ) x 7 ' ( h ) . this fall occurred sometime between 10/12/04 to 10/19/04 .
ee was working a valve handle back and forth when he contacted a sharp edge on the handle with his left forearm . result was a laceration that required five sutures to repair . no lost work days or restricted duty .
ee states he was cleaning a product lump out of the converter discharge chute to the fluid bed dryer belt . the bar he was using slipped in his hand & his left thumb hit the chute . the result was a fractured thumb
alsco sales rep was lifting rugs in vehicle . injured coughed and felt a pop and burning pain in side .
ee states that as truck was being loaded with rock , he got shook up and a little while later his back and left leg started hurting . was taken to hospital , was released and told to rest 4 days .
ee was moving hot material from the kiln feed end chute with a skid steer loader . ee was dumping this material into a 980 loader bucket and some hot material splashed back and contacted ee . ee was burned on his hands , arms and face .
injured was climbing down a ladder in the # 5 baghouse when he felt a pop in his right shoulder .
he was in the process of hangung curtain , he went to step on the tire of bolter and pulled muscles in his back..
employee was in process of task training miner utilizing a cobra air drill to install rib bolt . the bolt broke holding drill shank & struck ee in the forehead causing a laceration .
ee was hand loading roof-bolt plates into scoop bucket . ee finished loading the plates and went back to the section . ee was exiting the scoop and felt pain in the lower lumbar region . this incident did not become reportable until 01/08/2018 when ee was placed on restricted duty .
mantrip 100004 did not make a turn exiting the mine and struck the rib . a passenger said they experienced back pain . the employee was examined at the local er and taken off work .
while adjusting a tail-pulley down , ee started having some discomfort on left side of chest
ee was walking from office to locker room , slipped on icy patch in driveway , fell down onto back . did not seek medical attention until 12-19-00 , 4:00 pm ee taken to cayuga medical center , exam ined and released told not to lift more than 10 lbs . until 12-28-00 .
ee strained his back & right hip on 4/10/09 while using a pry bar to unhang material . he did not seek medical treatment until his initial doctor visit on july 2. ee was not placed on restricted duty , but was referred to a physical therapist for further treatment . this injury is being reported within 10 business days of the initial doctors visit on july 2 , 2009 .
a roof fall occurred # 2 section return 2000 ' outby section inby spad # 4926. fall measured 20 ' long , 18 ' wide & 6 ' thick . no injuries , no passage of men affected .
injured employee was operating a 992g endloader loading rock trucks . he was loading parallel with the shot , undercutting the shot material and some rock rolled into the cab resulting in contusions to the left hand and right knee . he had been instructed on two previous occassins to load perpendicular to the shot material .
while breaking flange to drain , line separated and caustic sprayed employee in eyes . he was taken to williamson eye center . steroid eye drops for inflammation was prescribed . he returned to work with no restrictions .
emp was operating haul truck hauling shot rock to the primary crusher . while being loaded , the bucket of the loader contacted the truck bed and jerked the truck . the emp complained of back pain and told the super about incident but refused med attn at that time . on 9/21 the emp told the super was in a great deal of pain and needed to seek med attn for back pain .
ee stated he was getting out of mantrip , left leg popped with pain .
a mechanic worked on a dust collector bag change on 5/22 . the next tues , he called in with complaints of back pain , but did not indicate a work related injury . while receiving medical attention , he reasoned that the bag change must be the cause of injury . on 6/13 , he met with supervision to make a w/c claim . an investigation is in process . awaiting assessment by physicians .
ee was using a wrench to change out a cut out the wrench slipped and his hand hit the broken cut out resulting in cut on finger .
while installing a cable bolt , a piece of draw rock fell striking the center of the bolt causing bolt to flip up and stike member in mouth , cutting his lip and chipping a tooth .
a temporary employee slipped while pulling wires from underneath the mcc room on a dragline . when ee attempted to catch self , ee injured right shoulder . the employee was not released to return to work and began losing time on 12/31/16 .
ee was carrying a welder to the back of the warehouse . ee tripped , and felt pain in his lower back .
a scraper operator was removing the center edge from 657 # 16. one bolt would not come off so a welder was called to cut it off . the welder was laying under the scraper to cut the nut off . when the bolt was cut off it caused the cutting edgeto fall on his foot causing the damage .
ee stated that he was performing his regular job of rock dusting resting the complained of low back pain
employee was changing the oil on the john deere 400 haul truck . when he was closing the belly pan he strained his back . this was not originally an msha reportable , but became one later when the employee went to the doctor and was put on restricted duty .
ee was lifting a portable plastic water cooler filled with ice and water when he felt pain in his back . a few minutes later while walking to his job site he began to feel pain again .
ee was replacing classifier blades at roller mill . he was crawling out of the roller mill and reached for the hand rail with his right arm . he felt a sharp pain and herd a popping sound in his right shoulder .
ee was stripping insulation off the conveyor belt remote line , when his hand slipped and cut his left thumb , which required sutures to close .
ee was shoveling material from under conveyor belt onto conveyor belt . his shovel ht a roller . the shovel knicked back and hit ee on his right cheek . the blow cut his cheek . ee received 19 stitches .
ee alleges he twisted his back on the rought terrain of the road surface .
employee was scaling highwall with 350c cat excavator on undetected rock of small size was undetected by injured . rock hit protective cab , causing jar and bruise to right leg . cab was position ed away from highwall during the process of scaling highwall .
employee states that while climbing the ladder on a haul truck he missed stepping down on the top step and fell to the ground . nobbody witnessed the fall , and the ladder was not broken or bent .
ee was taking bolts out of saddle of wheel unit . his hand was resting on fender of shuttle car when a rock ( approx . 5 lb ) fell out & mashed his fingers between rock & the fender .
stooped over to measure a shaft , ee stood up , turned , and felt a sharp pain in his back area . ee was placed on restrictions .
the prell hose failed and blew prell into eye , causing minor burns to skin around eye and small laceration on eye .
msha inspector issued citation of 25db average threshold shift on the 2000,3000,4000 hz range-left ear . audiologist , industrial hearing , identifies no reporting required . requested health conference to vacate - msha inspector requesting 7000-1 form to terminate citation paperwork .
employee was inspecting post maintenance repair of the raw meal feed sampler . during the operational test the sampler mixer unexpectedly activited .
while working employee stepped into a hole and fell striking his right arm , shoulder and head and felt pain . pain worsened and he called an emt . transport by ambulance to st. john's er springfield . no fractures were indentified and he was scheduled to undergo a series of physical therapy sessions making this a medical reportable event .
at an unknown date & time there was a roof fall measuring approx 130'l x 20 ' w from break 58 to break 59 on south 1 section .
employee was out of haul truck in an undesignated area . he tripped which resulted in injury .
a fall of roof occurred in the 2nd right panel off the 3rd southeast submain at crosscut # 28 , # 3 entry . the fall measured approximately 18 feet wide x 18 feet long x 6 foot thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
employee was uncoupling an 1.5 inch frozen line and was saturated with cement . the cement entered ee's boot without ee realizing due to freezing temperatures . ee worked until 2/1/2016 when ee required medical attention for 2nd degree burns to the top of ee's right foot .
ee was inspecting trunion water circulation system on # 5 kiln trunion . water blew out while hose was disconnected causing hot water burns tol . forearm and knee
the injured ee was drilling a bolt hole , when a piece of roof slate fell , striking him on the bridge of the nose .
a roof fall was discovered in the secondary escapeway , # 4 entry of # 4 mains , 140 ' inby spad 1462 , as the fire boss was making pre-shift examination . the fall was approximately 6 ' high , 20 ' wide and 30 ' long .
employee was standing next to a roof bolt machine when slack from the cable reel was taken up , knocking ee down and breaking left hand .
the ee was straightening a 6 ' torgue tensioned bolt and the bolt spun around , injuring the ee's left shoulder .
ee stated that he was securing side line on timber head and felt pain in lower back . began missing work 10-04-02 .
a roof fall was found in the # 6 entry outby 2 section near spad # 11307. the fall was called in to both state and federal agencies . no one was injured .
while cutting top , a rock flew off drum and struck ee in the mouth .
ee bent over to pick up/move continuous miner cable . ee stated he felt pain in his lower back .
the ee stated he was pulling line curtain in the # 3 heading across the last open crosscut after he had bolted the place . as he was pulling on the curtain , his right foot slipped from under him and he fell backward onto his left foot .
ee was down by crusher rock jammed being slug hammer to remove rock , rock didnt move trauma from hitting rock caused wrist to have pain .
on 8-6-07 employee complained about sore knee from slamming on d9l dozer brakes . did not want medical attention . on 9-4-07 complained about his knee being swollen . sent him to doctor and he was cleared for work . medication : oxyproxin more than 1 dose ( anti-inflammatory ) .
employee was pulling pump cable through a stopping , when ee slipped on the cable and twisted ee's left knee . employee went to the dr on 7/23/2018
injured was laying 85 lb track rail when the rail turned over and caught his middle finger on left hand . this resulted in a fracture and laceration .
our worker was cleaning a restroom and as she was connecting a sprayer ( that had a chemical called century q in it ) to a garden hose the connection wasn't secure spraying back on her face even with safety glasses on the water and chemical ran down her forehead and into her left eye .
employee was exiting the prep plant to do his regular laborer's job when another employee threw a chunk of coal out the window , hitting ee on the head .
standing on ladder , pulling on 1/2 '' drive longhand rachet . rachel positioned upside down . socket slipped off nut , striking emp on right side of mouth requiring stitches .
ee was operating a scraper being pushed by another scraper to load him and was jarred by the impact .
employee was working in the clinker basement hooking up several ladders to the hook of the model 308 grove crane . as he was securing the ladders with a rope , he noticed that the rope was tangled in some other equipment . the spotter misinterpreted his movements with his hand as the signal to raise the load , which cause his rt hand to be pinched under the cable .
ee alleges that during the week of 24 to 28 of july he was carrying a screen cloth that he placed on the secondary vibrator which has different weights . he injured his back and his right thigh .
while performing pm on truck mechanic noticed cracks in bed . asked helper to throw paint to him to mark cracks . when he reached for paint can . he started to fall . he held on to hand rail to keep from falling and bruised rt . leg , arm & hip . also had concussion .
leaning over metal frame of plant to place screen into p0lant . he was applying pressure to screen to get it in place . when it went into place , it caused him to lunge forward into metal frame o f plant which hit him in his mid-section on his front side .
ee was cleaning up spilt clay from under 66 shredder with a floor scrape . pulling clay out form shredder .
while walking on the section , ee hit his head onthe mine roof and fell backwards , striking his elbow against a scoops batteries .
employee slipped off ladder strainig lower back .
employee was working on east b belt and stepped on a piece of angle iron and punctured boot and left foot .
on 9/4/06 an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 1st 42 , north belt line , # 4 entry between # 52xc & # 53xc . this area was supported with 6 foot point anchor roof bolts . the roof fall measured 45 feet in length by 18 ' feet in width and 8 feet in thickness . the roof fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
ee was backing left side continuous miner out of # 8 entry , moving it to # 9 entry . ee had hooked up third rope and was turning around and twisted ee's left knee when ee's foot became caught between miner cables and water line . this incident became reportable when ee sought medical attention on 8/6/18 and was taken off work .
ee is a welder repairman was changing v-belt on conveyor while installing finger became caught between belt and sheave . ee was sent to occupation health for a pinch to tip of little finger rt . hand . over the counter meds were given . ee stated that the tip of finger was bent inward . ee was sent to orthopedics and a splint was placed on finger 7/25/17 . continues to work full duty .
operator of brookville locomotive violated movement instructions thus hitting mantrip head on . x-cut 83. employee treated and released at camc emergency room with cracked vertebrae . referred to specialist .
rock fall between # 5 & # 6 entrys 70 ' out by spad # 2491 . fall is 50 ' long , 3-6 ' hight 19 ' wide .
ee was stacking pallets using a forklift . he raised the pallet and put his head outside the operator's compartment to check placement when a 50 lbs bag fell and struck ee on the head . prescrip tion issued . did not report injury until 1-20-03 .
ee exited a small 4 wheel mantrip to check and date up a pump . upon exiting the mantrip he fell backwards and struck his head on a slate bar .
employee was assembling a hydraulic hose in the hose room when he stepped on a bad spot in the floor and sprianed his knee .
an unintentional fall of the roof occurred at the cross cut # 95 in the # 5 entry at spad # 659. this fall is 11,000 ft from the working section . this fall will be cleaned up and supported pending the approval of the clean up plan submitted .
installing a pan on loader , a bolt fell out causing pan to drop . pan weight jammed impact gun into ee thumb . bending the thumb in a backwards position .
employee was performing welding repairs on chute for load zone when lost footing and caught self by grabbing a beam . employee initially diagnosed with right lateral epicondylitis . on august 24 , 2016 , employee had surgery to repair a partial tear of the common extensor tendon .
the above mine has experinece a noninjury unintenti9onal roof fall on mmu 012-0 submains . nichols subnmains but off . the fall was off the section 3 xcuts outby the deepest penetration of nicho ls submains in # 2 entry . the fall is approx . 50'long , 20 ' wide , and 3-6 ' thick . laminated slate and sandstone gave way . the area had been supported with 4 and 5 ' fully grouted rods . no damage
employee was returning a derail device to its storage room . when ee went to put the device down ee experienced back pain . diagnosed as back strain .
ee was cleaning out lime build up under a tail pulley so he could unload railcars . ee was kneeling in water and wet lime for approximately two hours . he mentioned to his supervisor that his knees were sore . on 2/11 he told his supervisor he was going to the doctor for sore and raw knees .
injured was checking the sample crushed materialbelt to see why it was kicking off . he stated that he thought the snub roller had coal build up on it and was checking the roller when his glove became caught between the belt and roller pulling his hand in between the roller & belt .
ee walking through intersection of # 3 entry , trip over water line , and fell onto scsr injured low back area . taken to er , x-ray negative , released to rtw 9/2/09 . on 9/2/09 saw dr. at family health center , taken off work..
the # 3 coal mill system went down loaded with coal due to a secondary firing fan motor failure at 7:45am . the motor was replaced , and when the operator began to `` bump '' the coal mill empty several hours later an explosion occurred in the coal mill circuit causing the pressure relief explosion vent to rupture . no employee injuries or equipment damages occured .
as ee was operating the continuous miner a piece of draw rock fell grazing his right cheek causing a laceration requiring 6 stitches .
while getting out of a pickup truck to work at the pond 7 laydown , the sole of his boot caught on the floor mat . this caused a misstep and he twisted his left knee . he was taken to the hospital and instructed to keep all weight off the knee .
a lab tech . was taking a sample out of a pipe that was loading a railcar . the force of the flowing material took the bag from his hand . it startled him and he jerked his hand back hitting his index finger of his right hand on metal . this caused a laceration on his finger requiring five stitches to close .
ee began seeing yellow flashes in the bottom of his rt eye . he continued to work until 7/29/13 when surgery was performed due to a 75 % detached retina in rt eye . investigation has revealed the condition was brought on by stressful exertion while performing normal duties of a longwall utility man . this is being reported as an occ . illness since no true incident precipitated it .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in thebarrier cut-thru from 4 left 1 north section into the old 3 left 1 north bleeder entry ( survey station 7842- 7140 . ) size of fall could not be determined , but the height was above the roof bolt anchorage . the approach had beed supported and dangered off . age of fall could not be determined because fall was not reported to mine .
was helping put augers into beams and twisted the wrong way causing ee lower back to knot up . didnt really feel anything until friday morning around 10:00 a.m .
adjusting and cleaning of a tail pulley on a 110 ' masaba conveyor loto was not performed by the ee before entering the tail pulley section of the conveyor . belt was energized by the operator ; ee was in tangled in the pulley from his feet to his mid section of his body . ee was fatally injured .
prying with bar , bar slipped . caught little finger on righthand .
service truck fire : smoke inhalation , extinguished fire on truck . employee was treated and release thepmh emergnecy room at 5:00 on 12-19-03
putting hangars on finger for chute repair . 8 ft piece of metal square stocks cut index finger on sharp edging at top . heavier than expected . stitches / possible hairline crack in tip of index finger bone .
assisting 3 other ee in high area to left belt structure , lifted top stored up overhead , opposite side of started slipped off bed rail and top stand struck him on top of head . complaine with r ules , reg not a factor . portecture item not a factor proficency communication between workers coved be a factor did not miss days until 6-16-00 .
ee used brake cleaner and krol oil to clean a shaft . the product pooled in the key way and when ee inserted the key ; the product shot up into ee's eyes . the chemical went under ee's safety glasses and prescription glasses . reportable only due to prescription medication for eyes .
the injured employee went to talk to the scoop operator and put left hand on the side of the scoop bucket . ee didn't realize the scoop was running & the operator was pulling the ram back . it caught ee's left middle finger between the side of the bucket and the side of the ram blade which pinched ee's finger in it .
ee was cleaning material off a catwalk the material was 8 '' to 12 '' rock that had been spilled over onto the catwalk , by the discharge chute stopping up . the ee had move a rock when another rock moved catching ee s finger in between both rocks . smashing his right middle finger .
ee was operating machine too close to embankment . the ee was not watching embankment wh it collapsed onto machine . ee was pinned temporarily by his feet . ee then disembanked machine and was ta ken to hospital where hewas treated for bruise and released .
ee was shoveling material under the # 3 screen deck when a one foot diameter rock fell off and struck the ee on his left shoulder and back .
ee failed to notice that a valve was opened and he opened the valve allowing hot caustic slurry to come out and contact his left forearm . ee sustained second degree burns on his left forearm . restricted duty only , no lost work days .
treated for cubital tunnel syndrome by surgery 1/5/2016 . accepted as compensable by workers compensatation 1/9/2018 .
ee was lifting side rail of miner and fell on his right foot .
the ee was shoveling hard packed salt along 24 belt incline . the ee's foot slipped off a small ledge that was created during the clean-up process , thus twisting the right ankle . later in the s hift the ee was pushing a wheelbarrow along rough ground and stepped on an uneven spot , aggravating the injury .
ee was using a handheld grinder to cut rails on a screen deck . the ee was in an awkward body position trying to cut with the grinder and had to maneuver around machine parts . the grinder kicked back and struck their right forearm causing a laceration .
ee was collaring a hole off in the face with a jackleg . he lost his balance and fell . the jackleg fell on top of him
received a citation for a failure to report # 6270511. the citation has been conferenced and technical support call for evaluation of a ground support failure . the findings of our evaluatio n show a drilling and shooting problem not a ground support problem . this should be verified once tech support report is received on underhand mining methods and the use of paste .
about 4 a.m. discovered fall entry # 6 on 001 section , in return , 60 ' inby spad 2184. fall was 55 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' , there was no equipment involved , ventilation was not affected , passage of people was not affected . area was breakered off , and we have no plans to rehab this area . both msha and ky omsl was notified .
a fire occurred at impoundment id no . 1211-tx-09-02847-17 ( sp-4 ) . upon investigation the fire began feb. 15 , 2002. the fire was noticed by a tmpa employee . source of ignition is being investig ated as of this date .
employee was granted an award from wv worker's compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
employe ewas replacing hose on d-11 dozer when he slipped hitting his lower leg against the track of the dozer . he was taken to terre haute regional hospital , where he was examineed and given five stitches in his lower leg .
picking up dryer flight and felt a strain in low back . was informed by nurse that he was being treated by a chiropracter . no lost or restricted time . just went to chiropractor a few times and adjustments were needed .
twisted back while handling rockdrill to put away pulled muscle in back .
ee was using a 5 ' iron bar to clean out chute . rock came down chute and hit bar causing bar to strike ee in head .
while shoveling belt ee pulled shovel back with both hands and began to relocate shovel in gob , a rock 18 '' round x 6 '' thick fell and struck him on the left wrist and hand .
employee was setting bolt and spinned the torque tension bolt backwards and snapped head off the bolt . the plate flew off and hit employee in the forehead above the left eye
while working on a maintenance project , ee was drilling a small pilot hole to attach a cover to the oversize conveyor on the red screening plant when a piece of metal became airborne and struck ee in the right eye . ppe was and is provided and readily available but ee was not utilizing it at the time .
the ee was operating the roof bolting machine and a small piece of rock fell from the mine roof , hitting him in the back of his neck and on his back . he finished bolting and returned to work the next day .
emp . hurt left elbow when he tripped over a grate and fell against the side of a tank . emp reported the claim as record only on 4/20 . on 5/4/11 emp reported the accident to h & s director so a doctor visit could be made .
ee was attempting to remove a drain plug from a 777 rock truck . he was trying to remove the drain plug by striking a wrench with a hammer . he missed the wrench and struck his hand with the hammer
ee was climbing into a boat from dredge . the handrail broke . he grabbed the spud carriage to keep from falling , and the handrail fell on his left hand bruising his thumb and index finger .
as employee was taking down a stopping he picked up a mandoor and a jack fell over pinching his hand between the jack and mandoor . employee received treatment at raleigh general hospital where he received three ( 3 ) sutures .
rounding corner past 44 chute going towards 33 chute , he slowed for water on road . turning lefttruck veered right & struck rib on right side by34 chute entrance . flat tire & broken steering arm .
an unplanned fan outage occurred at our pennview mine due to a power problem that our power supplier to our facilities , experienced on their end . men were withdrawn from the mine . the power wa s restored at appox . 0840 , the same shift , and special examination conducted before men were permitted back in mine .
general foreman went to the # 5 lift pump at the # 4 matrix line to perform a key procedure audit . three mechanics were performing a pm on the pump . as gf walked around the front of pump sled , he stepped into a hole that was covered with mud . the sudden step into hole caused his left ankle to turn , resulting in torn ligaments .
was repairing coal truck tire , improperly installed inner lock ring , started to air up tire , causing the lock ring to slip and hit the and of air hose . thus sent it air borne to where he was s tanding .
employee stepped onto the corrugated metal strap attached to the side of the miner , when the step buckled downward causing ee to fall toward the machine . employee struck left knee against the miner . ee received seven sutures .
8p longwall recovery face # 5 to # 8 recovery face fell out approximately 5 ' to 6 ' high x 3 ' to 5 ' wide x 20 ' long . area has been breakered off , had no effect on ventilation and no escapeways are blocked .
employee was disloging a rock under the jaw crusher . the rock swung loose and hit him in the mouth.-
battery exploded in ee's face . ee was boosting off a dead battery . ee went to the dr. to have his eyes rinsed out .
injured was operating a track mounted mantrip . when he hit a rockduster causing his left hand to get caught between the frame and brake handle . this resulted in a fracture to his lt. hand .
ee was attempting to install a bolt & accident- ally pushed the wrong lever , causing the drill stell pinchers to close on his left hand .
a fall was discivered in the no.1 entry of the 2 south mains set of entries at survey station 311. the fall is approx 2000 ft out by the working section and measures approx 20 ' long by 20 ' wid e by 8 ' high . there were no injuries or equipment involved . ventilation was not disturbed . the fall will be re-bolted . area bolted with 5 ' fully grouted bolts .
wasusing a chisel and hammer to trim stone-accidently hit right hand with hammer-twice . area swollen and painful used ice pack and went to clinic for x ray .
ee reviewed customers paperwork for a pickup . ee let the driver know to enter the center of the building . as the ee was stepping back onto the lift truck , the truck driver entered the building at an angle , allowing the trailer to catch the lift truck dragging it into and pinning lift truck at the building and the trailer . ee hit shoulder and knee on the frame of the lift truck .
ee was checking radiator on excavator when the hinge broke and the hood fell , hitting ee on left shoulder blade .
while operating the company no . 405 roof bolter the employee was drilling a 12 ' hole for a cable bolt in the no . 5 entry . during the drilling process the operator's kevlar sleeve was caught between two sections of stack steel where it was bunched up around his elbow and when he engaged the rotation his arm became entangled fracturing his foreman .
jeep operator was operating jeep and lost his hat and light and hit a rib with his head . he was taken to hospital where he had 24 stitches aboveright eye . kept overnight .
the injured ee was tightening bolts on a belt discharge roller bearing , his ratchet slipped causing him to strike his chin on the discharge roller , his upper teeth bit through his lower lip .
a roof fall was discovered in no . 2 entry of the left return aircourse near spad 626. the fall measured approximately 20'wide by 80'long x 7 ' thick . there were no injuries and no damage to equipment .
ee was using the drill press to drill out a bearing . the drill bit hung up causing the bearing to spin around . the drill bit broke & the bearing flew off & hit him in the left palm . 4 stitches required .
employee was walking down the ramp , checking his leadwire . not looking where he was walking , he tripped over small rock & lost his balance . he fell , landing on his right hand , which resulted in a fracture on the bone above the pinky .
ee was working on the left track pin on a 350 trackhoe with two ratchet booms , one on each side of the track . co-worker then tapped one of the pins , and the ratchet boom came off at that time and struck ee in the left eye/bridge of the nose .
while attaching a jackpipe to a belt tail the pipe slipped off of the anchor and fell across his lower back .
it is the belief of the investigation teams thatthe victim was standing approx . 8 ' from a pump at its on/off switch . upon deenergizing the pumpa condition within the pump caused it to explode propelling the impeller cover plate striking thevictim on the torso and pelvis .
the injured employee had walked up into the entry to check the positioning of the mrs he was two feet inby the corner standing next to the miner operator when a rib rock 62 '' x 12 '' x 14 '' popped off of the right rib striking him on the right shoulder and upper torso .
ee was wrestling with another ee when finger jammed against a pallet . finger fractured and ee lost 1 day of work .
iee was exiting the crusher/hopper . he fell 11.5 feet to the ground on his right side . co-workers called 911 and 25 minutes later he was gernied by the emts then the helicopter showed up and was mediflighted to amarillo hospital .
while torching bluestone with protective eyewear in place , hot stone chip flew into eye .
ee was lifting miner cable to hang against the roof . strained his shoulder . ee did not miss any work until 12/8/03 .
repairman ee was carrying a few pieces of steel in his left hand and his bucket of tools in his right to go up the # 6 preheater stairway . he approached the ground level concrete support pad an d suddenly slipped and fell into the left side handrail . he struck his left side rib/chest area as he fell into the lower stairway handrail . he continued working the remainder of the day and
ee was climbing up the stairs/ladder to his loader when he slipped , falling to the ground . he hit his head on the concrete containment for our fuel storage .
climbed on side of trailer , slipped off ladder and slid down on tires catching right foot and leg between drivers and fell on back with foot still caught between tires injuring right leg and k nee .
employee was crossing over a stationary railcar . when he put his foot on the step to get down , his foot slipped off the ladder . he immediately grabbed the closest handle with his left hand and felt a sharp pain in his left arm .
ee was riding buggy across section when he hit his head into the top .
ee was closing door on backhoe when suddenly the handle of backhoe broke off , causing laceration of left thumb . sent to er and received 9 sutures .
received letter from wv workers compensation divisiopn granting an award for occupational illness . rec letter 1-27-03 .
was standing guiding a scoop operator picking up a lift of blocks . when the scoop operator raised the lift the fork package caught a hose that was hanging down across the entry . when the scoo p moved the hose sprung free and struck the injured across the face bruising his face .
while repairing a conveyor chain on a shuttle car employee struck his left index finger with ahammer . the impact of the hammer broke his fing.and caused a cut & required several stitches .
while the ee was greasing under his rock truck debris fell mud on to him getting behind his glasses and into his eye . ee finished his shift went to er next day . dr required him to be off work 2 days .
ee was using 3/8 '' drive impact to remove bolts from gas tanks straps for removal of tank . bolt he was loosening with impact was slipping . he then needed a wrench to hold the back side . he placed other hand on back side of bolt to feel what size nut it was . as he placed his fingers on the nut he accidentally turned on the air gun spinning nut cutting finger .
ee changing oil on equipment , lying on flat surface , upon arising , strained right knee
employee was operating a cat 972m rubber tire loader when ee felt pain in back . ee then reported this to immediate supervisor , who took ee to the med center to be evaluated . there was not a specific activity that triggered the back pain . ee was released back to work with restrictions . the employee has been a loader operator at the facility for 28 years .
changing batteries on ram car at charging station when the operator went to unhook jumper cable from the batteries . a piece of draw rock fell hitting him on his left shoulder and back . the roc k measures 15 inches wide , 37 inches long and 0-2 1/2 inches thick .
ee was climbing down from the back of mechanics truck . he tripped over a loose part & fell to ground .
ee was scattering timbers for belt lay , as he reached and picked up a timber he felt a pain in his lower back .
was breaking a core sample when ee struck left index finger with a rock hammer causing a fracture of the finger . ee was seen by a physician and placed on light duty .
employee was breaking a track on a d-10 t dozer , striking the cat with a hammer with one hand & had his other hand resting on track , track moved , catching his finger and mashing it . received 4 stitches and tore fingernail off .
the bargeloader had climbed from top covers of barge down to the bow deck of barge using the attached three-step ladder . when he turned to walk toward the starboard side , he tripped on the lid of the bow wing tank causing him to fall , falling on his right shoulder .
while inspecting the area of a pipe for a hole that required to be repaired lime fell on the employee as ee was looking up . the lime fell directly on the employees face , getting behind ee's foam lined safety glasses .
ee was lifting heavy parts and using a sledgehammer to remove a d11 blade when he started feeling a burning sensation in his left hip and leg , he also started passing blood .
after operating the front end loader for the day , at the end of the shift , ee felt a severe pain in her lower back . she called her supervisor to help her get off her loader .
the employee was working in the longwall section on the panline when a rock fell from the roof and struck him in the back of the neck and pinched his left forearm on the panline .
victim parked pick up truck close to rear of working wheel loader . victim exited parked track . loader operator was unaware truck or victim were behind him backed up , pinning victim between rea r of loader and sick of pickup truck .
ee was taking a can of gasoline to pump and he slipped and fell hitting his head on a rock .
ee was working on dump truck and hand were wet and pry bar slipped this causing and of bar to come back and cut chin .
employee was cutting conveyer belt to make a splice . he was cutting away from his body , and the blade of the razor knife broke . his arm contacted the broken razor blade , cutting his left forea rm . cut required 3 stitches to close .
ee getting out of a kawasaki mule when ee stepped on a rock and twisted right knee . ee placed on restricted duty pending treatment .
he was working on underground seals . he was loading the machine with seal tec with safety glasses some of the seal tec got under his safety glasses . he went to eye doctor & they flushed his ey e , he has to go back again and get it checked .
the hoist brake was not functioning properly as a result brak shoe wear . miners were evacuated and the pinion brake switches were adjusted to compensate for shoewear . evacuation started at 112 5 and was completed at 2340. hoist was tested and miners returned u/g at 2300 .
employee was operating a komatsu hydraulic hammer scaler . while scaling the face , the motion of the komatsu scaler lunged forward .
employee stated that he had a toothache and was going to the emergency room . when he got to the emergency room he told them that he got hit with a fork lift . he did not report this to his supervisor and the fork lift operator stated that he knew nothing about the incident . we fill this report with prejudice and that the indicient was not reported to supervisory personnell .
he was adjusting chain on wabble feeder during repair he was standing beside the feeder ( 4'awayhe was moving the chain electrically to get in place- when master link broke & hit ee in upper left shoulder .
employee was replacing tool - slipped and fell onto a 5-gallon bucket . employee suffered contusion to left arm and right side of torso . on oct 14 , employee opted for off-site medical treatment .
employee was tightening a trussbolt with a gun , pulled the gun off the bolt and the gun dropped causing strain to left shoulder . began missing work on 7-21-01 .
employee was changing out a front end on a ram car when he mashed his middle right finger . reportable only due to fracture to middle fnger .
miner was changing screen cloth when screen shifted forward unexpectedly anc cut middle left finger .
the ee was using bolt cutters to cut a piece of chain from an awkward position . he braced one handle of the bolt cutters against his chest and pulled the other handle towards him . he felt a `` p op '' in his chest area . the dr. diagnosed a soft tissue injury in his chest area and placed him on restricted duty with a followup appt . on 6-1-01 .
while installing a pipe the gasket was not set right . when ee went to set the gasket the pipe shifted and pinched his finger between the 2 flanges
ee was climbing out of hatch door & pulled a muscle in left shoulder .
at approximately 6:50am the schindler elevator became inoperable . dirt was found on the door re-opener photo eyes therefore the automatic doors would not shut . the safe edge was cleaned and the elevator was back in operation .
finger got caught on j hook while recovering high voltage . five stitches in index finger of left hand .
the employee was going rom the lunch room into the office to answer the phone . his foot slipped offthe stair going into the office , and he everted his ankle and heard a pop . he was transport ed to the emergency room with a fracture of the tibia and a spiral fracture of the fibula .
all members plastered stoppings during the move and ee complained after the move of his hands being irritated by the b-bond . it had worn a hole in his gloves and gotten on his bare hands .
he was standing near the suction line of the c mains centrifugal pump while the line was being filled . the line came apart at a coupler and struck him on the right side of the head causing a laceration to the left side of the head , concussion and skull fracture .
ee was found by a supervisor lying on the mine bottom beside company # 41 jeep at 0 spur on the 4 right longwall section . ee stated he was attempting to dismount the jeep , when he tripped on a bag of rockdust on the seat and fell , striking the mine rib . he attempted to use his arms to brace the fall and felt pain in his shoulder and upper arm .
operating a roof bolter installing bolts in a face area , while pushing an 8 ' roof bolt into the drilled hole , the bolt hung and bent . ee had gripped the bolt with left hand , attempting to guide it into the hole , ee mistakenly engaged the rotation lever rather than the mask lower lever , the bolt spun striking left forearm resulting in a hairline fracture to the humorus bone .
ee was taking plate off the burning table with a magnet . as he cleared the table , the plate released from the magnet and fell on his right foot . he was sent to hospital for further evaluation and treatment , where it was determined he had a fracture to his right toe . prescription meds were issued , but he returned to work without restrictions .
while performing maintenance work on a euclid r-50 , prior to quarry startup , company id # h-09 , the employee was using a grinder to prep metal for welding of a crack in the body of the above mentioned euclid r-50 , when a metal flake entered his left eye ( cornea ) .
swinging sledge hammer to knock something off & missed pain in r shoulder . swinging hammer and missed pulled arm . arm now is burning & sharp pain
ee slipped and fell during lock out/tag out procedure on an excavator . he was on the catwalk above the tracks when his foot slipped off and he fell to the dirt below ( he said his boots were wet ) . he broke his left hip and femur .
ee was coupling two drill steels together when the steel bent and caught his right thumb between the steel and the trs jack , causing an avulsion of the lower part of his right thumb .
checking screens on a wet shaker and stepped over a wash bay onto a j bolt which penetrated into shoe and slightly into foot .
a roof fall in the 1 south x-cut # 29 in the # 3 entry measuring 35 ft. x 18 ft. x 6 ft. - 9 ft. the area was mined in april 2004 and supported with 6 ft. tension rebar bolts and 9 ft. mega bolts . this fall was caused by a hidden slip in the mine roof .
a mechanic was using a pneumatic cut-off tool to cut slag from a loader bucket , as he started to cut , the new wheel on the cut-off tool broke into 3 pieces . one piece struck him in the side of his left hand , cutting it through his glove . he was taken to the er and recieved 6 stitches to close the wound .
a maintenance millwright has been diagnosed with a plueral plaque . though plueral plaques are biological indicators of past asbestos exposure , current and past exposure data and sampling data have not reflected a risk of asbestos exposure .
the employee was prying a cover off of a stage loader crusher , that was being held up by come-a-longs . when the come-a-longs got the full weight of the cover , the come-a-long came loose from the top and the employee was caught between the crusher cover and a pile of cable laying on the pavement behind ee . the employee was wearing all the appropriate ppe .
ee was pulling the curtain into the face at # 7 entry . a piece of draw rock 10 '' xz 10 '' and one inch thick fell , striking ee on the neck.he was seen by a specialist on the 20th , who gave him day s off from work .
employee was taken to hospital and began missing time from work on 2-19-01 , suffering from multiple symptoms of unknown cause . medical tests ove several months by numerous specialists diagnose d nerve damage in neck . injury attributed to strong jostling in front end loader when loading rock 4 days before hospitalization . no collision , just rough operation of operator .
ee was working on dredge and got overheated . the initial signs looked like a mini stroke , so was called into msha . after doctors visit , doctor stated it was brought on by heat exhaustion .
while in restroom worker had a heartattack
employee was getting ready to drill a hole . he swung beam in position . drill steel on top of roof bolter was sticking over trap . as he swung boom steel caught between frame and valve causing s teel to fly up and hit him .
ee was painting walls in a qc lab . ee stepped off of the step ladder that was being used and unto the counter top in the lab . ee lost balance and fell from the counter top to the floor . ee hit head on the floor causing a laceration that required 7 sutures to close the laceration . ee was able to return to work that day with restrictions .
ee claims that while he was working in the hydrate bagger room , he bent over to pick up a 50 lb bag of lime when he felt a sharp pain to his back and neck . he reported the incident on 9-26-00 at which time he requested to see a dr. he was seen at pro-med center and released to light duty . due to unavailability of light duty , he was excused from duty .
injured was cleaning grease away from bearing on # 5 belt take-up with a stick . the key steel on the bearing caught the piece of wood causing the stick to fly back striking injured in the right ear resulting 22 suture ' s
it was confirmed that this miner sustained a recordable sts in his left ear
while ee was lifting a pipe to install , he felt his back pull .
# 4 entry x-c32 , area already known as bad top and had already been dangered off , fall found during aaa inspection . 40'x 40'x 10 ' thick . area has been cribbed off .
ee was barring fine ore bin on the mill floor toget it into proper alignment and pulled a tendonin his right shoulder .
removing a table and vice from a drill platform . removing the top t bolt and was starting to remove the bottom t bolt , when the vice rotated and pinched the employee's finger between the vice and the bolt . requiring nine stitches to close the wound to the tip of right middle finger . an x-ray showed no fracture . the employee was released on restricted duty .
employee was troubleshooting air conditioning unit on mobile equipment . he had blower cover off to check voltage . witht he cover still off , he reached his hand down to determine if the blower was blowing cool air and stuck his hand in the moving blower fan .
employee was pulling `` j '' hooks from the loadout tunnel chute . he turned to the right and lost his footing , causing his right ankle to roll in . resulting in a sprain of the right ankle .
the victim was observing a auto stretch film operate to determine why the knife was not cutting the film when he went to check the knife because it was jammed . before de-energizing the equipment or checking for stored energy the victim unjammed the blade from the guard causing the knife to cut his thumb and thumb nail requiring 3 stitches .
injured man pinched his hand between the manlift basket railing and a metal beam . operator was looking at wheels of manlift to fit into small opening . injured man was watching operator rather than observing his environment . had hand placed outside basket .
ee bounced in his mucker and experienced back pain . a dr. took him off work until follow-up examination .
employee stated that he was putting together 4 inch waterline , and as he was clamping a coupling together the clamp sprung back and hit the index finger knuckle and middle finger knuckle of his left hand , employee stated that he was wearing his gloves .
ee was removing an airlock using a hydraulic platform . airlock and platform fell back pinning ee's ankle to floor .
ee pulled a muscle while installing a new loaderseat in a loader in the shop . he did not know itwas strained until the next day . he complained of shoulder pain & went to the doctor .
he was using a grinder on a d-9 dozer , when the grinder kicked back and struck him on the left hand , causing a lacertion that required 4 sutures .
ee was removing a tooth from the ripper of a d-11 dozer when a piece of metal flew off striking him in his right leg . ee spent one night in hospital while metal was removed .
ee was cutting a section of fabric to protect mine phone . as ee proceeded , the knife penetrated the fabric , cutting through ee's glove , resulting in a cut that required sutures .
spraying belt dressing he got too close and got his fingers caught in the pully . lost 2 fingers .
unintentional roof fall occurred in e-9a mains in n-3 entry 2 breaks inby spad 9729. fall measured 18'wide x 4'long x 15'high . fall extended on 12/30/03 for an additional 8 ' in length . the con tinuation partially blocked the primary intake escapeway for the 007-0 mmu . production was stopped & those affected were withdrawn until the escapeway could be re-established after about 1 hr
roof fall was found one break inby spad # 22440. fall was 20 ' wide x 150 ' long x 6 ' thick . slate top approx . 3500 ' from section . fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was changing bearings on nose ring fan # 2 kiln , he had one bearing off working on 2nd . he hit it with a sledge hammer sending broken of bearing housing flying up and hit him in the mouth .
ee stated that he was using a slate bar to pry a feeder drive sprocket into the scoop bucket . while doing this he felt pain in his lower back .
the miner was assisting in the installation of a heintzmann beam when it fell from the king rail and struck in on the left hand breaking one of his fingers .
the c. miner was backing up after cutting the bottom for clearance . ee bent down to pull the cable back with the miner , then started feeling pain . he finished the shift . he went to the dr. on 1-22-01. he began missing work then .
ee was changing out the valve bank on # 101 shield f-10 off 3 north longwall face when a 1/2 '' ball valve blew apart and struck him on the left index and middle fingers resulting in a fracture to the left middle finger .
ee states scaling # 3 pump in 340. air line had caustic in it and blew onto right knee . air was coming from exhaust port on scaling gun .
a roof fall was discovered at 3x2 crosscut , # 21 block ( 150 ' outby the feeder ) . the area was bolted with 6 ' supertwist bolts . no people , equipment , or ventilation was affected .
hand scaling out of manlift . large loose fell onto manlift boom . boom & gasket were pushed downby the weight of the rock & then catapulted ee inot the back . ee hit back with head ( hard hat had fallen off ) causing 3 laceration to the top of his skull
the fall was at survey station # 317 in the # 7 entry , 1800 ft from the face . the fall was 5 ft in height , 20 ft in width and 60 ft in length . the fall will not be cleaned up . the entrance to the fall is dangered off and supported as per roof control plan .
employee was tightening a ratchet strap , the strap slipped off and hit ee in the face causing a laceration to ee's chin which required several stitches .
on 10/10/06 , ee filled out a minor injury report on his shoulder . ee has continued to work w/o missing any scheduled shifts . on 11/07/06 , ee saw a physician for his shoulder . this resulted in restricted duty days , making this accident reportable .
potential work related hearing loss greater than 25db from baseline conducted in 1997. right ear 4000 hz-25db shift . left ear 3000 hz-47db ; 4000 hz-25db shift . ee has worked as a mill hand , working around milling equipment . hearing protection provided . ee is enrolled in our hearing conservation program .
employee was breaking refractory with a pry bar inside the opening of a holding vessel . the refractory broke off the vessel and struck him on the top of his left hand resulting in a laceration . he worked the following day and in the afternoon he reported his hand was swollen . he was transported to the local medical facility emergency room where he was given antibiotics . rtw
ee was helping to move energized trail cable behind shovel and stepped on a rock causing ee to sprain left ankle . ee did not use any type of illumination to assist ee to locate any dangers
as ee was climbing off his loader , his foot slipped on the steps , causing him to fall , hitting the ground .
employee was unlatching clean out door for collector dust pipe . when cleanout pipe unlatched , the weight of the material forced the door to droppinching employee's hand between the door and me tal deflecting chute , cutting employee's left thumb .
ee was hanging miner cable and wire broke , letting cable strike ee across back .
employee was helping shift mechanic put bumper on 11 cm ; mechanic hit keeper pin with a 4 lb . hammer . this caused a piece of metal to come off pin head and fly into employee's neck .
employee was trying to get pipt fitting off of pipe , hit pipe off concrete . pipe bounced up and hit him in the mouth .
employee alleges to contracting coal workers ' pneumoconiosis as a result of his employment with apogee coal and was granted a 20 % ppd award by the wv op board
employee dropped a micon drill and struck his leg and foot .
ee was working on shuttle car conveyor . the ee had gotten the conveyor back in place and upon attempting to drive the pin strap over the pins he struck his left pinky finger with a ball peen hammer .
ee was installing a roof bolt . his glove became caught by the bolter wrench and his hand then hit the roof plate , cutting his fingers .
while grinding metal box , employee felt object enter eye , metal caused discomfort to employee later in the day and was removed in emergency room . employee stated he was wearing safety glasse s .
ee was crossing the belt structure and strained his right knee . *began missing on 2/24/00 .
employee injured left calf muscle while performing routine duties . while holding grease-gun in ee's right hand , ee proceeded to step onto the lower step of the inspection platform . as ee mounted the step , while pushing up with left leg ee felt a pop and immediately experienced a burning sensation in left calf muscle .
while disconnecting plant recirculating pump for repair , ee strained his chest wall . ee went to see company dr on 3/14/02 & was placed on restricted duty .
injured was a passenger in a man-trip which struck a roof jack which was installed in concrete along the travel-way . the corner of the bumper caught the jack causing the injured to strike ee's knee against the dash of the mantrip .
the mantrip derailed at 12 break and hit the rib inby the corner and spun around and hit corner with left side of mantrip , thus spinning until rear of mantrip was facing out by . there were 7 employees in mantrip,5 were transported to hospital with 2 being held overnight for observation.1 suffered a broken shin & dislocated ankle , the other a laceration to the head
e was operating a joy 21sc shuttle car in the # 2 entry , two crosscuts inby spad 12473 traveling towards the face . when the sc hit a hole in the roadway , the impact jarred his back resulting in pain in his lower back and hip area . ee's first day away from work was jan 8 , 2003 .
ee stated while throwing a rail switch he felt pain in his upper back and neck . ee was placed on light duty by a doctor .
a roof fall occurred on # 1 unit , # 2 entry , x-cut 42 last open . l 25 ' x w 17.5 ' x t 12 ' . the roof was bolted with 6 ' point anchor .
belt 2 stopped for unknown reason , causing friction which severed the belt . this friction resulted in a fire around the nelson drive . fire was extinguished with fire extinguishers . mine belt w as severed and a new one will be installed .
employee was scraping out bucket of front end loader , when his scraper struck some harder , compacted material . this caused his arm to stop short , at which time , he felt a slight twinge in his right elbow . **reported to bussen office 4/30/07**** **1st treatment 4/30/07*****
ee tripped in door trench in back of shop while exiting the building . his knee swelled immediately . he did not want to go to the doctor at that time , but will leave early to ice and elevate the leg , stating he had surgery some years ago on this knee . if not better over the weekend he said he would seek medical attention .
the welder was carrying an 8 lb bearing sleeve . he turned sideways to enter a doorway and he stepped down at the same time ( approx . 16 '' ) to the next level . he then felt a sharp pain in his low er back . he has received three chiropractic treatments since 12-26-01. no restrictions .
employee was roof bolting the mine roof when he was struck in the left hand by the drill steel when the insert broke . employee completed his shift but later was examined by a physician at summersville memorial hospital and was placed on modified duty for one week with no use of his left hand . this is a reportable only injury with no lost time due to incident .
on 9/5/07 ee was in the process of re-fueling a compactor . he strained his left shoulder while removing the fuel nozzls . he continued to work until 11/1/07 at which time he began missing work due to pain in lt. shoulder .
ee was pumping barges and while moving pump he pulled a muscle in his lower back .
truck driver got off her truck at the end of the shitf and realized she had left her bag in the cab , and remounted the truck . as she dismounted she slipped from the ladder , then noticed pain and swelling in her knee . she saw her physician later that day , prescribed a knee brace , referred to a specialist and was given light duty . currently ongoing
employee was removing leg transducer on shield and had cut the pressure valve off and was reaching for the valve when it blew off and was hit in the face with high pressure soluable oil .
victim was operating roof bolter and while swining boom out a piece of rock fell from between installed bolts striking him on the back .
employee was using an 8 pound sledgehammer to remove bolts from a tank flange . the hammer handle knocked the employee's hard hat and monogoggles off and at that moment a drop of caustic got into his left eye . this resulted in irritation of his left eye . an opthomologist prescribed pain medication and an antibiotic for the prevention of infection .
ee was changing out pump on fuel truck when he slipped and fell causing injury to right cheek and forehead .
ee helping put crib blocks under a feeder to replace crawler lift jack pin . he stood up to go around to other side , tripped over a crib . he fell striking his right knee against a rock 1 '' x 10 '' . he continued to work until 3-2-02 when he wentto camc for high blood pressure . dr. noticed knee & suggested specialist . has not seen specialtist , no medical treatment or lost time as of yet
ee opened heavy equipment compartment door , felt popping sensation and pain in r shoulder . first aid until 11/20/2012 ; confirmation of positive mri for minor shoulder tear .
ee has hearing loss under south dakota worker's compensation . ee filed claim upon retirement .
he was replacing grease line on baghouse discharge screw conveyor . baghouse flushed causing lime to shoot out through hole in lid , striking him in the face .
ee was roof bolting and was in the process of drilling a hole . when he went to remove his steel the steel came out of the drill chuck and pinned his left pinky finger between the jaws and the steel , which resulted in a laceration to the finger . sutures were required to close the laceration . ee resumed his regular duties 2/27/02 .
ee were re-positioning the trommel to complete a repair . as the trommel moved , the feed chute for the trommel swung down and struck the ee on the arm knocking the ee to the ground . this fractured the ee arm is several places as well as lacerating it . first aid was administered on site , emergency services were called and ee was taken to the hospital .
employee turned a nut to remove a filter bag in the pellet plant . the employee felt pain in right shoulder . an mri revealed tendinosis of the supraspinatus tendon and degenerative enthesopathy of the humerus along with osteoarthritis . the employee's diagnosis was rotator cuff tendonopathy , a disease of the tendon , resulting in a referral to physical therapy .
ee was walking around fueling station to do some clean-up & twisted his right ankle . he said no specific cause & the ground was level . our safety director spoke with a coder at msha office of injury & employment information on 4/6/06 about incident & was told it would not be reportable . site was inspected on 4/25/06 & msha inspector told plant manager that 7000-1 must be completed .
ee was carrying a bag of rock dust . he stepped on uneven ground and twisted his left knee . results of mri shows torn meniscus . results came back to mine on 4/12/12 .
ee was traveling on haul road afterdumping loadof washed stone . he reached to pick up a clipboard . when he raised up , m he was traveling toward rail cars . he struck 2 parked rail cars .
ee was lifting a hauler transmission mounting bracket when he experienced pain in his left side . ee's first day of restrictive duty was 9-11-02 .
employee was operating a battery powered personnel carrier and ran over a rock in haulway causing the steering wheel to quickly spin and the hand knob strike his right hand and wrist .
after making several trips up and down stariwaysto dust collectors , ee began to feel pain under his left knee cap area .
a roof fall was discovered in the # 5 entry of x-butt near spad # 10,117. cribs and gob were removed to prepare to build seals when the fall was discovered . the fall area was 4 feet in height and 40 feet in length . affected area is being cleaned up and re-bolted .
a roof fall occurred on the 3c belt # 4 entry x-cut 8. l 20 ' x w 18 ' x t 10 ' . the roof was supported with 6 ' point anchor ( doublelock ) bolts .
ee bounced hard hat off of a headache rack in lhd . had pain in left shoulder & neck . originally , this was only a minor injury report . he has since sought physical therapy .
ee stepped off scoop and twisted his knee and foot . x-rays revealed a broken bone in his foot . no surgery required , only a cracked bone , but will be off regular duty for a few weeks .
ee was working underneath boom truck , when he started to get to his feet he heard a pop and began to experience back pain . he was transported to hospital ; and xrays revealed a broken rib ( rib # 10 right ) .
a roof fall occurred on the main south roadway at crosscut 47. the cause of the fall was a slip . msha was notified immediately and the fall will be cleaned up and re-supported .
employee was operating a roofbolter . a rock fell while he was setting his first bolt and cut his left forearm requiring stitches .
the continuous miner was stuck , was placing 4 ' x 8 '' crib block under the tracks of the continuous miner for traction , ee picked up a crib block and pulled his back .
injured was in the process of swinging his boom out whan a piece of rock fell striking him on the arm causing a laceration requiring stitches .
ee was cutting a piece of 2 '' x 4 '' on table saw . when piece kicked back , fingers on left hand were cvut by saw blade .
ee was in the crusher control house when he stepped out to walk down the stairs , reached the ground and twisted right ankle .
ee was hanging outby end of wing curtain in # 6 entry . left bolter was in last open between 6-7. bolter cable was hung across # 6 entry over head of helper where he was hanging curtain . bolter o perator started his machine not knowing his reel was engaged . cable pulled loose from wire it was hung with knocking ee to ground . he fell on his rt hand , injuring his thumb .
employee climbed onto a 14 ft metal/fiberglass ladder positioned against a connex . employee was tying off the ladder when the ladder slipped , but it did not fall . employee fell approximately 4 ft to the ground sustaining a fractured right wrist and shoulder . medical assistance was immediately summoned . employee was treated and transported .
we were notified by msha about the part 90 miner and was unaware that we needed to complete a 7000-1 form until now . we apologize for it being late .
ee alleged on 8/28/14 a repetitive task induced illness caused by hand shaking material samples . ee received test results on 10/14/14 revealing moderate carpal tunnel syndrome in both wrists . ee was released to work with no restrictions given at this time .
at 6:31 am an explosion occurred behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . msha , state and company have initiated investigation but results not yet available .
helping place power box , he left work with back pain . had surgery 6 months prior to this date . visited clinic where original surgery performed ; taken off work and scheduled for follow-up . doctor unsure if new or old injury . refered to another doctor ; had a series of exams performed . 6/22/06 received e-mail stating that evaluation indicated `` right lumbar radiculopathy '' .
injured ee met with foreman prior to going to plant to assist in removing shaker guard to replace drive belts injured ee told foreman that morning that his back hurt he though that it was possible his kidneys , but he would be able to work the day . just after removing guard , ee now claims he strained back in same area of initial pain . injured ee on light duty
ee was dragging cable for a power move on 3rd shift and his back made contact with a damaged pin plate that was hanging down . he received a laceration on his back that required 16 stitches .
on 2-26-09 ee was struck by a piece of coal which may have aggravated a previous neck surgery . ee went off work 7-13-09 for surgery . after a review of all of the doctors reports it has been determine that the second surgery was required because of an aggravation . the difference between the accident date and reporting date was pending the final review of his surgery .
ee was lifting a wear plate and hurt his lower back .
the ep was carrying a kennedy jack on shoulder , stepped into a muddy rut and twisted left knee . an initial report was filed but no medical action was taken until 7-11-16 when the ep complained that their knee was bothering them . ep was taken to the emery med . clinic where they were given a knee brace and a prescription for a topical ointment resulting in a reportable .
injured riding in open top mantrip coming out ofthe mine when a piece of draw rock fell out and struck him on right forearm-cutting right forearm requiring stitches .
ee bent over to pick up a crib block and hit his head on a 4 '' pipe that was suspended approx . 4-1/2 ' . note : personnel files not available at this time due to emergency evacuation of bldg . miners cert # and job/mine/mining experience not available .
ee was making a splice on some cable . while skinning the cable , his utility knife slipped and cut his right hand between the thumb and index finger .
an employee with 2 years mining exp & 1 week at sieboldt was operating a stockpile truck at the plant . when employee opened door of truck his left hand made contact with a roll pin that attached the handle to the door . the pin head was mushroomed and caused a small laceration . employee received 3 stitches and was released with no work restrictions .
cut out the tailgate headed back to the headgate ; there was a rock lying on the bretby channel up on the top of pan . employee went to move rock ; as he grabbed it to put it into the conveyor he felt pain on his left side upper abdominal area .
ee was shoveling at the 15 w belt pony drive when he twisted and felt pain in the left lower side and pain down the left leg . ee continued to work until 6/7/10 went off work due to this injury .
the injured was tramming the miner out of the # 4 entry face xcut in the first panel south on the # 1 unit after finishing a cut and was struck by a piece of rock that fell out from between the rib and outside pin on the intake side of the entry . the rock struck his lower back .
a roof fall occurred on the # 1 unit in the # 6 entry in the last open x-cut at spad 12 and 15 to 13 in the third north panel off the third east . roof fall was 18 ' wide , 50 ' long , 15 ' high .
there was a unplanned roof fall on # 3 unit intake at spad 16+60/8
ee stated while holding ladder for worker hanging cable ( hv cable ) ladder wobbled & ee holding ladder strained right arm . ee started missing work on 1/20/05 .
there was a fall in the 2nd main east , at spad 102+20 between the 5 and 6 entries . the fall is 14 feet wide , 78 feet long and 14 feet high .
ee was shoveling coal and dirt when he felt a pain in his upper back .
miner was welding on a piece of steel in the shop . ee removed gloves and walked around the welding table to reposition leads . then went back to the steel to slide it around and burned hand on a hot weld .
employee was performing maintenance on dredge ladder pump . employee slipped and cut right shin on crossmember of dredge ladder . injury required 9 stitches .
reportable only due to stitches : employee was bent over ramcar moving miner cable and a rock rolled off ramcar , striking employee on the left lower arm and hand .
ee closed the door of the loader on his thumb and smashed it .
1b supply rd . 1st sw submains between x-cut 10 and 11 . 60= cross cuts outby # 1 unit . 45lx20wx7t . ventilation , equipment and personal were not effected .
ee leaned forward to pull air hose that had become entangled in wall-mounted hose reel . as the ee yanked on the hose , the reel handle spun up and struck the ee in the mouth . the contact resulted in a cut to the right lower lip . ee received 4 sutures from local er .
awarded claim by wv bureau of employment programs stating approval for application for noise induced hearing loss .
ee was working with air hammer . he removed his glove to get a better grip and over a period of time froze his hand .
while working on a 6 vdc battery , tool contacted both positive and negative posts causing one cell to arc and spray battery acid into eye .
using slate bar on stuck pin , pin was lodged very tight and had to be removed with loader . sometime after removing pin , ee felt a stinging on exterior of stomach .
remoning reverse ribbon screw it rolled pinching finger sutures required
a roof fall occured in the 4 north panel , # 8 entry , starting at the inby edge of the intersection of crosscut # 59 and ending at the outby edge of the intersection of crosscut # 61. the fall measured approximately 60'x19'x5 ' . the roof was supported with 5 ' fully grouted bolts . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall .
ee was shoveling around tailpiece - handle of shovel caught little finger of left hand against metal frame of tailpiece . this resulted in finger nail being partly torn .
pry bar hit rt . hand . he was turning rock , when it turned , whipped bar from hand & it came back & hit rt . hand . fracture rt . long finger .
a winter storm hit the area around the mine . employees were instructed to leave the mine site . ee was leaving the portal area . he was walking down the road from the portal to his truck . he slipped and fell due to the ice and snow causing an injury to his right wrist .
a roof fall above the anchorage of the installed roof bolts was found mine the mine examiner . the fall was approximately 20 ft wide by 20 ft in lenghth by 6 ft in height . the area of the fall was in the intake airway but did not effect the escapeway .
employee stated he was getting out of coal hualer when he twisted his left knee .
ee was closing the service cage door at the shaft collar when the top latch struck the header knocking some material loose from the ledge above ( salt dust/dirt ) . this material fell onto his fa ce and slid into his left eye . he immediately flushed his left eye but still felt pain , so we took him to hospital . the physician did not find anything but gave him prescriptions , which he to
a mccarter electric employee ( id # f880 ) used the improper meter to test phase rotation on a live circuit . the meter that was used was not designed to be used with live voltage . the meter short circuited causing a flash that burned ee's eyes .
excavator was loading truck . hose busted , causing excavator bucket to fall in bed of truck . the weight of bucket in bed raised the truck , then the front of the truck came back down causing a jar in cab of truck . it was a pc 2000 komatsu excavator .
ees were using a magnetic drill that was positioned about chest high to the ee that got injured . the drill bit seized & the magnetic drill bar came loose & turned one full revolution before co ming to a stop . as the dril bas swung around it caught the injured ee's l. hand between the drill base & the corner of the piece that was being drilled . this resulted in a crush injury to ee '
power kicked off # 43 hoist . msha was notified . hoist repaired and back in service at 12:45 pm
employees were flipping hammers at a horizontal crusher - stedman crusher . while flipping hammers , you have to move them to align them up . employee caught middle finger under hammer with gloves on . employee never looked till break time at approximately 9:00 to check out his finger . employee reported right away .
ee was dismounting off of a 235c rock breaker , when he stepped off the rock breaker he stepped onto same small stones , which caused him to twist his ankle and foot .
ee was bringing parts into the mill on line 17 primary mill . while sending parts into the mill he bumped his knee on the feed trunion . he suffered strain to his knee his on restricted duty .
employee operating loader , inadvertantly loader bucket struck rock debris pile , causing loader to abruptly stop . operator was gripping steering wheel with both hands , causing a slight impact affecting wrists of operator ; wearing seatbelt . operator remained in full duty work as per doctor . as of early april , employee received minor physical therapy for wrist discomfort .
employee received a laceration to finger when reaching for support on a pm4 box while stepping from panline . small bur on pm4 box caused laceration .
employees were working on a dragline under construction . three employees were moving 36 '' x36 '' x1 '' plate on the house floor . employee flipped plate and floor plate gave way . injured employee and another , fell appox . 7 foot . injured employee received sutures on elbow .
a roof fall occurred in the # 3 entry ( primary escapeway ) of the 9i section at 19 stopping ( station # 47.50 ) . the fall was 35 ft. long , 16 ft. wide and apx . 12 ft. high .
man was trying to get a not out the socket on an impact wrnech . wrench had airline connected . man's right hand contacted trigger on wrench and spun the not up to the 2rd joint of his left index finger .
did not start losing time until 6/4/01 . strained lower back lifting discharge hose from rockdust tank .
ee was dropping a hose when a rib fell . he put his arm up to block it and it struck his right wrist .
employee was climbing down from a digger he was washing when he accidentally grasped the controlthat activates a hydraulic jack . when the jack lifted up , it pinched his left ankle .
employee was bolting when the rib spilled striking ee on back and shoulders .
ee was installing a roof bolt and his hand was on the bolt when rotation began . his glove caught between the drill pod and the head of the bolt . ee sustained lacerations to the left middle and ring fingers .
employee was installing a rear gear on the end of a camshaft . he missed the punch with a hammer and hit his hand on stud between the middle and ring finger . he was taken to local medical facility . hand was soaked in antibiotic liquid , ex-ray taken , and given a tetnus shot . employee was given prescription for antibiotics and released to full time non restricted work .
employee was unclogging a chute at head pulley of conveyor # 1. the prybar which employee was using slipped & pinched finger against chute lip .
while tying shoe laces a small piece of rock fell striking ee on hand .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the mine no . 5. , crosscut 38 , # 2 and 3 entries , 3rd west headgate 6212w . the fall was approx 20'lx18'wx10-12't . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will not be cleaned up .
ee twisted his right knee while turning corner while walking along walkway constructed of steel grating . the sprain resluted in restrictive duties .
employee was bolting in 6 right when a piece of rock approximately 24 '' x 3 '' x 2 '' fell from the rib striking employee on the lower back . employee was treated by emt's at the scene and transported by whitesville ambulance to camc general division . employee had xrays taken which was negative but was referred to a spine specialist for further treatment .
ee was pushing an oil pipe inside the k-3 burner . the pipe flipped and crushed his right hand index finger .
unintentional roof fall occurred on main first right in # 6 entry near spad # 833. it was 40 ' ( l ) x 10 ' ( w ) x 5 ' ( h ) .
ee was working on the 1800 screening plant when he removed a rock from the tail pulley . the belt rolled back and caught his left hand in the pulley . he then used his right hand to push another employee out of the way , straining his right shoulder . ee started receiving physical therapy on his right shoulder 07/28/2010 . turning this into a medical treatment .
ee was changing grease barrel-120lb . can on auger . ee lifted grease pump out of empty barrel and felt something pull in his back . this ee has a history of back problems pre-employment . he has had back surgery and should not of been lifting anything that heavy .
ee was pulling on a 1 1/4 '' rubber water hose to clean up spillage in surge tunnel . his foot slipped in the mud causing him to fall to the ground . it was raining at the time of the accident .
ee was assisting in changing the 12 '' flex coupling on the dredge suction . the safetey cable broke the coupling struck him in the chest . he landed on his left knee . ( he had previous surgery o n his knee pre-dating his employment .
while cutting a smaller piece from a sheet of aluminum , the metal alluminum piece that ee was using as a guide slipped & hit him in the front of the face . he was using his safety equipment .
pressure bounce occurred between 16 north and 15 north bleeder for 17 north lw , mmu 010 , causing floor heave & damage to regulators in bleeder .
injured employee was walking by refuse vessel screen and stepped off a 3-4 inch drop off and `` tweaked '' middle back . reported as a file only initially and modified to an lta on 08/02/2018 .
two employees were moving a powercable for an undercutter by way of tractor . one employee was watching the cable at the machine . the employee pulling the cable dropped off the wrong strap to add slack . when he took off again the power cable and cable swing arm pinched the employee against the back of the cutter .
an ignition occured on the 003 section while retreat mining . the continuous miner was cutting the no.42 lift ( in accordance with the plan ) and holed through into a previously mined lift when the ignition occured . ee's in the area stated that they saw a flash in the area of the miner head . the roof consisted of massive sandstone , & bits striking the roof may have created a spark .
ee was retrieving 1x1 screens in shaker box that had fallen during the night shift . while in box , ee slipped and fell with left elbow absorbing the blow . slopes of the box and dampness were causes of fall .
employee was getting into a breakcar when he slipped and caught himself with his right arm and twisted his arm as he fell . restricted duty injury 11/25/08 .
employee was laying on his side , pulling on a 36 '' pipe wrench to remove a pipe nipple & he strained his rt . shoulder & upper arm .
setting screens in place when one screen slipped , catching ee's left middle finger between the two screens , ee was wearig gloves .
ee was positioning a piece of steel when it fell & pinched his left ring finger resulting in stitches .
worker was trying to seperate stacked conveyor cover supports . the supports were still stacked from delivery . while attempting to seperate the first two supports , the supports snapped back to the origional position causing a fracture to his left middle finger . his finger nail was torn off as he quickly pulled his hand away .
ee was lifting left leg up to get in mantrip and twisted lower back . this is a re-occurance of an existing back injury .
lost footing on wet platform , slipped and reached for vertical post , hooked arm at bend of elbow . ee stated ee had injury to left arm .
a roof fall was discovered 1 crosscut inby spad 4512 in the # 5 entry which is the neutral . the fall did not affect persons , equipment nor ventilation . the fall was appx . 20 ' x 20 ' x 8'high . the fall was dangered and timbered off .
walking beside the roof bolter & a piece of rockfell & hit ee on the head & fell striking him onthe right forearm . laceration with sutures working with sutures
the mentioned ee strained his back while unloading supplies . ( bags of rock dust ) . strain
a roof fall occurred in the 1 main east in the intersection of # 4 entry at cross-cut # 12 and extended part of the way through the pillar line between # 4 entry and # 5 entry measuring approximately 40ft . x 19ft . x 6ft . the area was supported with 6 foot tension rebar bolts . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall . this area was mined in february 2004 .
ee was building a road pushing trees over in an open cab john deere 550 dozer when a tree branch entered the cab and pinched his left hand against the control lever .
while walking away from pre-heat tower , ee felt his foot roll over . he was walking towards mcc of control room . ee wasn't sure , he didn't feel that he stepped on a rock .
left in coal buggie , a buggie of rock was dumped into slope buggie . ladder was forgotten about causing the rock to jam on tipple chute when buggie was dumped into chute outside . foreman then stood on side of rock truck to poke up at jammed ladder and rock with mine board causing rock to slide down board knocking foreman down along side of rock truck .
ee was grinding kiln shell when grinder jumped back & lacerated ee's thigh .
while standing on a 4 foot ladder at 2 belt head , employee was using a wrench to tighten fitting on water deluge system and wrench slipped , and he fell off ladder hurting back and left shoulde r , resulting in bruises & strain .
bretby came out of the cable tray , ee stop shearer and replaced the bretby . when handling bretby , the pin retraining the hoop cut ee left hand , ee stayed on the job .
states , he was replacing cross shaft bearing w/split type and was lifting bearing in place when he started hurting in ( l ) back and groin .
this report is being submitted for the sole purpose of abating violation # 7098808 , event # 4054919. employee allegedly suffered flash burn to both eyes when roof pan ( pie pan ) contacted the trolley wire . the reportability of this alleged incident is being contested .
helping to pull merrick stone belt through roller . note : this accident was not reported earlier because we did not know that surgery would be involved , or any lost time .
three miners were traveling underground in a utv . the driver pulled the utv into a crosscut to allow traffic to pass when the utv tipped onto the left side . the miner in back was bracing his left foot against the side of the utv ; when his foot slipped his leg was pinned under the left side of the utv resulting in a fractured tibia .
employee was carrying 2 pallets of refractory brick on forklift . forks were elevated while he was backing up with load . forklift tilted forward due to heavy load causing bricks to slide off forks and employee was thrown from inside forklift cab to the ground . employee was not wearing seatbelt inside forklift .
ee strained his left knee after jumping from a catwalk when the ex1000 hitachi shovel caught fire .
truck driver picking up load on site . ( not mine employee - employed by contractor . ) driver was tarping the load and fell off onto the ground . driver was not using fall protection harnesses which are provided .
member was loading 2 '' high pressure hose on mantrip end of hose slipped and smashed ring finger on left hand .
ee was installing new screens on an inclined screening unit . in process of pounding in screen wedge keepers said employee strained his right shoulder and right arm causing tendonitis .
ee slipped while working on kiln pier base & hit right shoulder . he initially declined treatment but after one week was feeling pain & was sent to the clinic . he was then put on light duty wit h bruised shoulder . he was returned to work with restrictions of lifting no more than 5 lbs and not raising shoulders above head .
roof fall approx . 20 ft wide x 60 ft long x unknown height in no . 5 entry- 130 ft inby survey station no . 599 .
while working as stargo tankhouse , the employee slipped and struck a beam with his right shin .
ee was mounting a rock truck , first step was a cable step , ee placed rt . foot on step then put his weight on the step . when doing so the step swung causing pain in rt . knee .
the employee was installing roof support to the roof when a rock ( 18 '' by 10 '' by 0.0 '' to 0.5 ) fell and struck him in the upper left arm . # 1 unti , # 7 room , just inby 12+60 spad number . first aid was given to the employee and he was taken outside for further treatment . he was given 5 stitches .
( lta ) : unit # 1 - employee alleges while walking in # 9 entry , twisted left knee . mri revealed medial meniscus tear requiring surgery . employee reported similar injury 3 weeks prior .
employee was applying stone on travelway with scoop when side of scoop opposite the operators compartment sank in a soft spot , thus permitting the operators side to raise and in doing so emplo yee struck head against roof as well as a roof bolt . employee received staples for laceration .
on 11-16-07 , around 6:30 am a roof fall was discoved at number 9 break on number 1 belt line . the fall measure 4'x18'x18 ' . no injuries were reported as a result of this roof fall .
on sunday may 25th ee was working in clinker cooler and got clinker dust in eyes . off may 26th . may 27th ee s right eye lid felt irritated so he was sent to the dr. the dr saw nothing in his e ye and prescribed drops for irritation . may 28thirritation had cleared up .
employee reported a 4 '' pvc plastic discharge line hung along side a conveyer belt had got into a bottom roller and was partially cut into , when he was examining the damage to the water line , the water line broke in two , one end flew up striking victim's forehead , resulting in a mild concussion .
the cone & conveoyor shut off . crew cleaned conveyor & tail pulley off . foreman asked if everyone was ready to start up . plant man when to his station & foreman to his . foreman made eye contact with injured . the plant man started his conveyor & foreman started his conveyor then turned to make sure all conveyors were moving . did not see injured so shut down equipment .
ee was installing races into 785 wheel hub with press . race was going in crooked . took 2 hammersand was using them to straighten the race when apiece of a hammer came off and hit him . metal im bedded into left side of head near temple .
while dumping scrap from a hopper into a dumpster , employee cut finger .
ee was helping install filter cloth around the impoundment . he put his hands under a roll of filter cloth to lift it up . a copperhead snake bit him on the left hand through his leather glove .
during routine inspection of the emergency air shaft conveyance hoist , it was discovered that the emergency brake relase witch was out of adjustment and rope slack device was tripped , renderin g the hoist inoperable .
hot thickner pump had plugged and the employee was in the process of disassembling the pump to clear debris from the impellor . the pump had been blocked both at inlet and discharge , the isolated area had been drain and flushed repeatedly . however , material buildup in the isolated area rushed out unexpectedly , burned the employee's hand and a small spot on the neck .
employee was placing 105 lb . spreader bar & dump block pins into pin hole and the pin slid into place faster than expected crushing employee's left tip of ring finger between the pin head and the dump block..
injured party was standing in mud and water about a foot deep trying to hookup a supply trailor when a prop was shoved against the injured party left ankle .
initial audiometric test indicated a reportable sts shift . retest was conducted , but results were invalid . sts shift is being reported at this time and baseline will be revised .
ee was tightening a bolt with his wrench when the wrench fell . the ee bent over to pick up the wrench and experienced back pains as he was bending over . the ee was treated at the local medical clinic and returned to work with work restrictions .
ee was standing on some rocks at the tub of the 1370 dragline . he was assisting in removing grease from around the circle rail in order for weldrepairs to begin . he was standing on rocks to st ay out of some water that was pooled at base of tub due to heavy rain . ee slipped off on of the rocks . ee had on rubber boots .
the ee was in the process of hanging high voltage cable at the end of a section power center on a grade . the employee slip and in process grabbed hold of a 4 inch hanger resulting in a laceration to the ring finger on the right hand .
ee stated that while putting a screen under the raw coal belt he felt pain in his lower back .
he was trying to lay the verticle silencer down so they could clean it . the silencer swung side ways pinching his arm against a beam . he has crushing injury to his muscles and tendons .
roof bolter operator was breaking the bands from a bundle of roofbolts , when one of the bands snapped back and cut his wrist on his right arm . the cut was relatively small and compresses and bandages were applied to the cut to stop the bleeding .
while maneuvering the 4 wheel personnel carrier in to tight area the front wheel contacted the coal rib causing the steering wheel to spin uncontrollable striking ee on the right index finger .
the miner was de-energized . ee was moving cables to prepare to cut a corner.he put the rope on the bolt on top of the j-hook and went outby the miner.he started the miner and the rope slipped off and he leaned in to pick the rope up and was pinned against the rib with the boom of the miner.he freed himself and walked to the front of the miner .
south mains 34 block # 10 heading mmu 006 - 4 way intersection 8 ft high x 20 ft wide x 20 ft long . type of support : 6 ft resin bolts 6 '' x 6 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional r oof supports set around fall
employee was welding ( maintenance ) @ riprap plant when experienced irritation in his rt eye . employee went to exam eye , flushed it with saline solution , found small particle on cornea . after an unsuccessful attempt at removing the particle , management sent employee to an eye care professional for removal . the particle was small piece of rust embedded in the cornea .
approximately 5 tons of rock material fell onto the 2 main heading approximately 2400 ' in by of portal # 10 blocking truck traffic through this heading . msha inspector investigated the accident on the morning of 7/13/10 . there were no injuries as a result of this incident .
employee was decending from top of a vessel being cleaned , when he slipped on the wet surface and fell aproximately 3 feet to the floor level , hitting his side on a protruding pipe flange and breaking two ribs .
ee was standing on a crane on the left rear side by the hydraulic tank working on the hyrdraulic lines . he lost his footing , slipped and fell 5 feet to the ground .
ee was roof bolting on 3/19/2012 . a piece of rib fell and hit his left ankle . he did not want an ambulance and just went home . the next day on 3/20/2012 at 3:30pm he went to a clinic and was diagnosed with a broken ankle . tough guy .
a mine examiner discovered an unplanned roof fall on the # 1 section ; # 6 entry ; # 10 block ; spad # g286 measuring 11 ' high x 20 ' long x 20 ' wide
climbing in # 1 ducon scrubber to clean the `` j '' chute , he was bruise by the door .
a plant maintenance mechanic reported that he had jammed his left elbow on a piece of steel while dismounting a haulage truck . as a precaution he was seen by a physician for observaton & relea sed without findings . he latter reported experiencing discomfort & requested further evaluation.he was referred to an orthopedic specialist at which time he received treatment for bursitis .
ee was removing tape from wires so that they could be reconnected to circuit breaker . he was using a knife to cut and remove the tape . in this process his knife slipped as he was prying on the tape and cut his left forearm .
ee reported : attempting to unload steel cont . miner cutter motor cover from a supply basket to mine slope car . the supply basket was raised using surface fork lift . when the victim lifted the 100 # object from the basket & d turned to place in the supply car , pain was experienced to his low back region . victim is 6'5 '' tall , weighs appx 350 lbs , should be able to handle this load .
while ee was jackhammering a transfer chute , he lifted the jackhammer and thought he pulled a muscle inhis shoulder .
employee was working with another person plastering a return stopping on the 20 west coninuous miner section . the mud for plastering was in a five gallon can with the lid cut off . as he stuck his hand into the bucket , he lacerated his left forearm on the sharp edge of the cut-off lid . the laceration required six sutures .
ee was helping hang ventilation tubing . he and another ee slipped one end of the tube into the hanging tube . as the straps were being hooked up , one end of the tubing slipped out of the tube a nd fell , striking ee on the thumb . resulted into a sprained thumb .
while performing routine maintence on a conveyorthen crawling out from under conveyor ee struck his head on a metal support beam ee sustained a small sutrable laceration to head
unintentional roof fall 40 ' ( l ) x19.5 ' ( w ) x 5 ' to 6 ' ( t ) . # 4 track entry & # 5 entry on spruce section near spad # 8696 .
removing fill hose from rock dust tank and cut his finger on the metal band on the quik coupler .
ee was carrying a bag of rock dust , when he hung his foot on a rock and strained his lower back and leg .
a sheet of scrap metal tipped over and drove a sharp point into the ee boot behind the safety toe and cut the second toe , the cut required stitches to close it .
dust blew into his eye while cleaning magent chute in air separator building .
employee was lifting the lid on a railcar that he was loading . he felt a pull in his back , but didn't feel it necessary to see a doctor at that time . ee continued to feel soreness in lower back and saw the company doctor on 9/3/08 . dr. gave employee a lifting restriction of 15 lbs . until next appointment .
the employee stated that ee was working on a broken belt and as ee crossed the # 2 section tailpiece ee stepped down and twisted ee's ankle . ee sought medical attention and was prescribed crutches and walking boot if needed , but no restrictions . ee returned to work the next shift at full capacity . this is being reported as a medical due to the prescription .
mine foreman was conducting a weekly exam . he found a roof fall in the section return ( entry no 1 ) between spad 7+00 and 7+50 . the large horse-back was at the anchorage of the 5 foot bolt . msha was called at 10:30 a.m. the area was dangered off , then cribbed , and the return air was rerouted to entry no 2 .
ee was removing material from the hopper conveyor and in the process his elbow on some metal while shoveling .
employee slipped on top of bc-2 & wrenched his rt . elbow trying to catch himself . he sought medical attn . on 4/22/05 .
ee pulled the tractor trailer w/container up to seal placement rack . when on top of the rack there is a `` trap-door ' in the catwalk . ee said ee placed the security hook to trap door to prevent it from falling . as ee was placing the seal lock on the manhole cover , the trap door fell down . the trap door hit ee in the back of ee's head pushing ee's forehead into the catwalk .
the # 1 mantrip was parked at end of track where men had unloaded . the park brake leaked off . the # 1 mantrip ran app 800 ' down track rounding a curve where it met # 3 mantrip traveling toward section with a crew of men . the mantrips struck each other . the impact caused a whiplash effect on men riding in # 3 causing neck and back pain .
the ee stepped on pipe in the back of the pipe truck and slipped . he fell and broke a rib on his right side .
ee was standing beside the belt drive take-up atthe time of the incident . he had just helped pull the take-up roller back with a come-along . thechain on the come-along broke striking his right forearm causing two small lacerations .
employee was working on a cytec issue at 5 diluter . while swinging a hammer ( 8 lb with a long handle ) , his right pinky finger got caught between the hammer handle and piping/equipment resulting in a fractured right pinky finger .
an employee was cutting skirt board rudder with a utility knife , when ee cut ee's left index finger with the utility knife , had to get five stitches
ee was using an electric grinder on a wheel loader bucket . he was grinding rust away to install a new cutting edge . while grinding the grinder wheel caught a rise in the metal and the grinder kicked back into ee hand . his index finger was caught between the grinder wheel and the wheel guard causing a deep cut .
ee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome in both hands . his first lost work day will occur on 8-7-01 due to surgery to correct the condition .
an unplanned roof fall has occurred at 26 brk . old southwest mains outby spad # 939 1 brk . fall was approx . 30 to 40 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high , no injuries and the fall did not affect ventilation or travel ways
the ee was making a belt splice when a piece of metal came off the driver and went into his hand .
ee was drilling a hole . had the hole down 3 ft limerock was hard . he pushed down on drill truck . the drill truck picked up and pushed him into backhoe . co-worker was on backhoe and heard injur ed yell . he looked back to see what was happening and seen that injured was between the drill truck & backhoe . he then twisted backhoe away from him & then jumped off backhoe to help injured .
the 002 mmu mined into old mine working at approx 2:00 pm , & an unplanned inundation of water occurred forcing the underground worker to retreat to the surface area . the mine map indicates tha t the closest 010 works were approx 200 ' away . this was a non-injury inundation of water .
the ee along with two other ee s were installing a cap on the end of the slurry line to the slurry cooler surge tank . the cap had been removed to keep steam from drafting through the scrubber during inspection . while replacing the cap , steam blew out of the pipe across the ee's face and arm causing burns to appear on both .
ee was installing a belly pan on the # 631 pan . belly pan slipped between chain and the pan .
employee was helping remove rocks from the primary crusher after it had plugged up with stone and dirt . as ken and another employee were trying to pick the rock up off the ground to load it into a wheelbarrow , ken strained his back muscle by trying to lift one end of the rock at an awkward positon .
the cedar creek elevator was out of service from 6:53 am until 9:46 am due to an auxilary brake contactor fault .
ee was closing a gate valve on a material chute , as ee stepped down ee lost 3 points of contact when hand slipped causing ee to fall approx . 18 '' onto the steel grating on the plant walkway . ee was treated by a physician for back bruising and placed on restricted duty - prescribed medication for pain .
putting pusher & finisher together when lever malfunctioned causing pot to keep going up & pinching hand . ee required stitches .
ee cut his thumb while pulling a broken band out of the banding tool . his thumb was sutured but he lost not time .
ee reported pain in his wrist . he was examined by the authorized provider and diagnosed w/ tendonitis probably due to shoveling approx . 2 weeks prior to the report . physical therapy and meds w ere prescribed and adminstered . a wrist splint was provided he was released to full duty .
ee was carrying smaple buckets , containing material down steps next to 806 belt . ee stepped on piece of material and turned his right ankle . ee was taken to the hospital , was treated and relea sed . ee is on restricted duty .
the ee was carrying out the daily garbage . as he was walking up a flight of stairs he felt a pain in his lower back .
truck hood fell on ee's left index finger tip/point . he has not returned to work as of this date and is receiving physical therapy . he lost the nail and part of the skin but there was no amput ation .
employee was replacing coupling link of afc and cut his hand on a sharp piece of metal . **reportable only due to stitches**
while the victim was cleaning rock from the conveyor of the mbc that had been parked he pinched his left pointer finger between the rock he was throwing and the mine roof causing his finger to be fractured/lacerated .
injured is not sur how he hurt minself , he picked up an electric motor , used a sledge hammer to open a mill door and set his tool box in the back of a pickup . he felt pain in his neck and left shoulder when he put his tool box in the truck . he is believed to have suffered a pinched nerve in his neck .
ee was trying to untangle the miner cable . while he was pulling on the cable , he strained his groin area . ee started missing work on 1-18-05 . ( diagnosis : hernia ; surgically repaired on 1/18/05 . )
ee was with a cleanup gang . they were working on the cooler compartments . ee requested a hoe be handed to him . as he turned around to grab hold of the handle it hit him in the mouth .
at approximately 5:22am , the shindler elevator became inoperable . the elevator was intermittently stopping in the shaft with multiple fault codes . numerous connections on the elevator were cleaned and tightened . the elevator was back in operation at 9:20am .
due to a power failure ee was instructed to inspect the dust collection on mill # 2. he rapped on the dc with a rubber mallet . then he opened the conveyor below the dc and attempted to reach his hand under the outlet of the dc . his arm was caught between the flighting and the conveyor housing breaking his arm .
ee stated that while walking near the no . 1 belt conveyor he stepped in a hole and twisted his knee .
an unintentional roof fall was found on mmu 002 working section in the intersection of number four entry one crosscut inby section loading point . the fall measured approximately 8-10 ' high , 20 ' length , 20 ' width . all approaches are cribbed and dangered off . the fall will not be cleaned up .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered 2 breaks on by spad # 1484 in the # 7 entry # 15 break on the # 5 belt mains . the fall size was approx 4-5 ' high by 25 ' w by 25 ' l. fall area had been sup ported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts . no injuries , no equipment caught , ventilation was not interupted . fall will not be cleaned up .
ee reached inside drop caser to retrieve a jug of litter and scraped hand across jug guide . the jug guide had a very sharp edge and cut her finger . ee had de-energized equipment before trying to retrieve jug . the laceration required 7 stitches . ee returned to work with no restrictions and no medication prescribed .
a pillar fall occured in the gob on the 001 section and rode out by the mobile roof supports approximately 15 ' .
operator had a virus with nausea & diarrhea . the reason this report is late we were trying to find out from the dr. if ee was off work because of the bump on his head or the virus , we could not get an answer .
ee was loading a big rock into a 777 hauler when the rock came out of his bucket , jarring him . ee complained of back pain and left early , but returned the following shift and worked out the week . over the weekend ee said his back worsened . he began missing work on monday july 24,2006 .
employee was using an acetylene torch to cut an access part in to conveyor airslide . sparks ignited belt no employees inured
employee was working on a conveyor from manlift basket and strained lower back while replacing a bearing on conveyor . 9/19/06 - employee had six physical therapy treatments . employee continues to perform regular duties .
on 05/27/2014 information diagnosing the employee with occupational pneumoconiosis was received by brody mining , llc .
a roof fall occurred in the 10th east , # 3 entry , # 96 crosscut . the fall was 20 ' long , 20 ' wide , 8 ' high . the area was bolted with 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , tra vel , damage equipment , or cause any injury .
ee informed foreman he felt a twitch in his leg but it did not hurt when it happened . when asked if he wanted to see a dr. the ee said he would wait , stating ? it could just be a pulled muscle ? . on 6/12/2008 the ee went to see a surgeon and was diagnosed with a hernia . on 6/24/2008 the injury was determined to be work related . to date the ee has not missed any time from work .
ee was stepping into passenger van , leg slipped and scraped/struck the edge of the van causing a large laceration . ee was seen at the er and stitches were required to close the wound . ee put off work .
ee was dropping belt magnet . at a point the magnet tilted and ee fell . ee did have a safety lanyard on . after the accident we found the hook on the lanyard to be twisted and bent . at the point where it was hooked . ee received six broken ribs , laceration to his face and head resulting is sutures .
after installing new forks , ee used forklift to facilitate loading of damaged forks into service truck . as ee slid and shimmed the second fork into the truck , a fork on the forklift shifted , allowing the heel of the damaged fork to drop in between the forks on the forklift . as it dropped , a bur on the damaged fork caught sleeve of ee pulling arm into the crush point between forks .
fall from dragline boom resulted in broken ribs and dislocated shoulder . ee was performing routine maintenance greasing the sheaves on the gantry . the boom was lowered till the boom point was at ground level and the gantry was lowered to the boom . he walked down the boom and greased the left side , he slipped and fell 9 ' to ground striking the boom structure on the way down .
ee was in the process of dumping a tri-axle load of coal when the truck tipped over . the ee suffered a laceration to his right ear .
report of unintentional roof fall return # 4 belt , 2 breaks inby spad # 1345
at the time of the incident employee was removing the left muffler from a 690 tiger . as he was holding the muffler with his right hand and pressing on a prybar with his left hand the muffler suddenly broke free from the turbocharger coupler , causing his hand to be pinched between the muffler and frame and lacerating his finger .
this operator experienced a reportable roof fall on the tailgate of the 3-left longwall starting at 41+90 and extending outby to 41+25 . the fall was 65 ft long x 10 ft high . the fall affected the passage of people & quantity of ventilation . ( action to prevent re-occurrance - this operator is adding additional roof support in the area adjacent to the fall area & outby in the entry . )
pulling on belt trying to feed towards sector gate and felt pain in his upper right shoulder . employee requested medical treatment 05/29/03 . followed with physical therapy to right shoulder . r eported on `` quarterly report '' failed to file 7000-1 .
the injured stated he was helping drill operator break two drill stems apart . the steel clamp/breakout wrench wasn't holding the drill stem firmly . mechanic placed 2 '' x 4 '' x 16 '' board between the drill stem and breakout wrench to increase grip on drill stem . he motioned the drill operator to tibhten the die grip onto drill stem . when the wrench moved quickly it caught his rt thumb .
employee reported on 6/25/17 that ee injured arm 6/16/17 . ee was removing a seat from a euclid hauler using a wrench and the back right bolt was very tight . the dr did not give any restrictions on initial visit . ee eventually required physical therapy on 8/22/17 which makes this a recordable injury .
rail `` low boy '' with scoop was walking around scoop to hook chain to scoop `` low boy '' he tripped on a crib block and fell cutting his left handbetween index finger and thumb .
a roof fall occurred in the # 4 right entry . the initial roof fall was approx 36 inches thick . the manner in which the rock fell had the continuous miner trapped . after miner was retrieved the rock fall was approx 9 ft thick by 40 ft lonby 18 feet wide .
was working welding in the plant . ee over extended right shoulder . ee also did not report this accident until september 27 , 2016 .
ee was working a t-i grate installing stub shafts on the south side . he squatted down to pick up a e ton capacity comealong and felt a tear in his right knee . on 5-7-02 , he received medical tr eatment for his knee .
ee climbed up a conveyor belt to check motor size . while up on the conveyor , the belt rolled back causing the ee to lose his footing and fall approximately 15 ft to the ground . there was no power to the equipment . ee was immediately attended to by witnesses who made sure he was concious & kept immobilized when it appeard his back was injured .
ee was tramming a track motor and a piece of draw rock fell and broke the life line . a hook from a rope hanger attached to the life line struck him on the thumb , resulting in a cut .
employee was walking backwards talking to another employee in the equipment parking area . as ee turned around , ee turned into a fill pipe on the side of the parked water truck . the pipe struck ee in the right upper rib cage shoulder area causing ee to fall . employee complained of right shoulder pain after incident .
ee was working with another on the crane . they were repairing the shive on the crane boom . they were putting the pin back in . injured had his hand between the pin and the crane and when other hit the pin it broke free and hit injured's right hand cutting the right middle and index fingers .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the old 1a panel at station 35+70 between entries 3 and 4. the fall did not affect ventilation , passage of men ot cause personal injury . the fall measured 18ft x 18ft x 6ft high . the fall will not be cleaned up . approx date of development 7/15/07 .
ee was roof bolting when drill steel became stuck and tried to free it , he hit himself in head , causing lacerations .
two employees were trying to get pump pressure from glut to face area . injured was turning # 3 valve about 1/4 turn when pressure caused glut to break chain that held glut to monorail . glut knocked both to the ground . ee said glut hit injured in the head . x-ray showed fracture in neck . also received sutures .
this accident was reported to msha . this employee is an additional injury that just showed up . employee was standing with 2 other employees when we had an ignition . this employee did sprain his left knee but it did not hurt until 10/04/07 . employee is a control room opeerator seat # 2 and is performing that duty full time no lta .
employee was moving steel on the storage pile to retrieve material for a project . ee felt back tighten as ee moved the steel . it got worse throughout the week .
stumbled & twisted knee in loadout & also twisted when returned to the lab .
two emp were drilling a hole in the mine floor with a hydraulic drill . the drill bit caught causing this emp to stumble & loose grip on the handle of the drill . the drill spun causing emp hand to become caught in the hand guard with emp hand stuck on the trigger . 2nd emp fell into conveyor feeder . this emp taken to dr and placed on restrictions .
ee felt sharp pain in back area under ribs while hand scaling . dr diagnosed a fracture to one rib . ee released to restricted duty .
employee was moving the undercutter cable to the next panel , after plugging it in , he turned and his knee popped , he couldn't put any weight on his left leg .
roof fall occurred at spad 1373 and it measured approximately 5 ' thick , 30 ' long and 16 ' wide .
employee was struck in the hand with a rock while riding in a mantrip .
ee was putting a bearing away on a mid-height shelving area in the conex when the bearing slipped from hand and struck the metatarsal area of left foot .
injured got out of mantrip . raised up too fast ( according to dr. ) & he passed out & fell onto the track hitting the back of his head on the rail which cut his head resulting in 8 stitches outside & 4 stitches inside . injured was riding 36 bus .
employee was assisting with installing pins on the right dragline fairlead sheave . while repositioning his body to enter the manlift , his foot slipped causing him to fall back into the fairlead assembly . his left arm struck a chain hook on the catwalk handrail causing a laceration with stitches .
while helping guide a 50'x 7 ' culvert across uneven ground , the ee stepped into a soft spot and lost his balance . he caught himself as he was falling but in the process he jammed his left leg and knee . the ee continued to work full duty through 07/16/09 . msha lost time accident 07/17/09
pre shift mine examiner found a cave in # 4 entryof the 3rd southwest mains . cave started approx 20 ' inby station # 714 and extended for a distance of approx 100 ' . area is timbered and dangered off . area was bolted with 5 ' point anchor bolts and 6 ' instal .
ee was removing a wad of thread from the sewing machine at the main plant . he pulled the thread trhough the sewing machine and extended his arm to the left . when he did , he reached behind a bag kicker panel as it was returning and his hand was pinched between the panel and the back of the kicker .
an an unknown date & time there was a roof fall measuring approx unknown size at break 52 on the south l section .
ee was hanging miner cable and felt a pull in his neck , with numbness in his right hand .
the continuous miner was caught by a roof fall in the # 4 entry right pillar . after the msha 800 number was contacted the existing fall fell more and covered the continuous miner up . the roof fall also extended into the # 5 heading . both falls were in the same area and was a continuation of the first reported fall .
crusher attendant was inspecting the phase i shuttle conveyor . she stumbled on a stonebox chain , injuring her left hand . she started physical therapy on 12-1-2000 .
a roof fall occurred which propogated from an older fall . the new fall traveled from an unused part of the mine and stopped beside a haul road . material from the fall piled up on part of the haul road .
operator was attempting to close the front windsheild on excavator when it became stuck . he used both hands to force the window shut . it came down quick and caught his right middle finger between the window and the frame .
while in the process of tramming the highwall miner to a new pit , the track popped and a piece of metal flew off striking employee on the left wrist .
ee claims to have injured his left knee when he struck his knee with a metal jack . ee started missing work on 2/19/03 . management became aware of this on 2/27/03 when a workers comp . report was received .
ee was running bugy . he stopped to move 4 5 gal bucket of oil . when he picked one up he felt pain in his abdomen .
ee twisted knee when he slipped in the mud .
the employee was under the decline belt drive frame prying on an i beam with a pry bar . he felt a sharp pain in the left shoulder with continuing discomfort . on 1/16/07 while in longwall warehouse the employee was trying to retrieve a snatch hook when he felt sharp pain in shoulder . he was taken to seek medical attention and was put on rd until his mri on 1/25/07 .
ee was diagnosed with silicosis by a pulmonary specialist on 5-16-00 .
ee fell off equipment while performing 125 hour service on aerial lift .
while tightening a 4 ft crusher , employee struck thumb with sledge hammer .
ee was walking down steps , when he slipped & felt a pop in his left knee . ee had walked through a fine layer of mud . ee believes that mud on boots was a contributing factor to the slip . ee was send home on 03/05/12 because he took rx pain medication 15 minutes prior to reporting for work , against rx instructions . this resulted in a lost work day .
ee was welding , slag burnt his rt lower leg
ee was walking on rails of trailer strapping load when he fell off the trailer landing on theground .
employee was using a box cutter knife and placed it on a pallet of sand knee high with the blade exposed . the employee walked away and as ee walked back toward the pallet ee ran knee into the knife causing a laceration of the left knee .
roof fall above anchorage which blocked the passage of men . the fall was # 26 wall , # 4 track entr , 4 way intersection west mains . the fall was 20 ' wide , 50 ' long , and 20 ' high . there were no in juries or damage to equipment .
while walking across hood of rock truck , employee slipped on ice/oil causing him to fall on rt side . had pain in right knee and lower back .
ee was washing out under the rock plant . when he exited he ran into a steel beam with his mouth and broke his partial . also he cut his mouth . he did not notify us until december .
ee was backing miner out of xcut 6-5 and had head down watching miner cable when a piece of rock fell from between bolts and hit him in back of head . he was wearing hard hat .
ee was installing unloading skateboard onto the outlet valve when he bumped his right hand against the unloading skate board . this slight bump irritated the cyst on his right hand . it became s ore .
ee was roof bolting . when he set his bolter up to put up a roof bolt and as he pushed the roof bolt up against the roof , a piece of rock busted underneath the bolter . this caused the bolter to drop down 4-5 '' , striking the ee on the head with the canopy .
roof fall happened in sump entry # 2 off a-mains at station spad # u828 . fall is approx . 150'long.fall is not in the main entries . they are all open cribbed off all sides of cave and rebolted w/ 12 '' cable bolts . fall is outby face area about 2000 ' .
a unknown type fire started in a screen deck during maintenance which spread to 2 conveyors and 2 additional screen decks . the fire was extinguished in approximately 40 to 50 minutes by local fire departments . there were no injuries or illnesses resulting from this occurance .
while changing pipe nipple on top of flight pump with ee holding pump with pry bar , injured was pulling on pipe wrench , pipe wrench slipped on his middle finger left hand , was pinched , lost fingernail .
cedar creek elevator is out of service as of 9/13/06 due to electrical problems . bagby elevator company examined the service elevator , but did not have the part needed to repair it . we are presently still in search of part to repair elevator .
while stepping off of a conveyor frame ee twisted and strained his lower back .
ee using hand grinder , debris flew into right eye .
ee was shoveling beltline when he felt pain in his lower back .
ee was cutting a plastic tie with a razor knife . he was cutting toward hismelf and cut the back of his left hand requiring stitches .
ee was turning a gear on a water strainer with a 36 inch pipe wrench . he felt a pull to the groin . ee continued to work his shifts . he had surgery on 12-11-03 for a groin hernia . on 12-17-03 h e was hospitalized for other medical problem . at this time are not work related . this determination has caused this delay in reporting .
ee reached back to pick up a guard and bumped his right elbow on a handrail shortly afterwards his right arm began to swell .
late during his last shift before a 3 day weekend ee started experiencing heat cramps in legs , arms & back . he reported this to his supervisor , drank fluids & completed shift . on 6-14-04 he returned to work as scheduled but complained of a pain in his lower back & was taken to the dr. he says there was no specific incident that caused the pain . prescribed meds & restricted duty .
ee hit his own hand with an 8lb hammer . fractured finger .
on 12/18/2015 an associate stepped out of the loader he slipped on uneven ground and grabbed the handle to stop from falling . we took him to the clinic where he was released without restrictions to come back to work . on 1/4/2016 an mri was performed resulting in a torn bicep muscle . he was released without restrictions but we have restricted his tasks .
ee states that while using an air lance to unplug a screw conveyor , the dust blew back into his face getting dust in his right eye . this caused ee to get alkali dust burn to right eye .
employee was filling the steam cleaner with gunk liquid pressure washing compound . as he was filling the machine , the can slipped and some of the fluid got on his face . he was taken to smith northview hospital to be seen by a doctor as a precaution . he was seen by the doctor and released back to full duty . there was no burns or other visible injuries .
employee was using a high-pressure water hose to wash out underneath the stageloader . he lost control of the hose , was knocked down and struck on the right wrist the hose nozzle .
welder and a helper were assigned to weld patches over holes in the possumbelly of the se shaker . the helper was holding the patches in place as they were tacked . helper experienced flashburn as a result .
ee alleges he was grinding pipe with a grinder and he started having pain in his left wrist .
ee was lowering the pinner canopy when it tiltedstriking him chipping a tooth . 10/1/00 last day of regular cycle retd to work reg cycle 10/6/00
electrician determined need to change a problem contactor on operable production hoist . mine foreman was told to evacuate the mine . evacuation was starrted , but was not completed prior to beginning component changeout . inspector arriving on site was informed of the situation .
a roof fall measuring approx . 17'x50 ; x20+ ' occurred 1 x-cut inby spad no . 121. the fall area was dangered off and the area abandoned . the fal will not be clean up .
ee was working to clear the jaw crusher of a large boulder that jammed the crusher and pulled a muscle in his lower abdomen . ee did not realize the extent of his injury at the time and did not report it to his supervisor .
while making a belt splice on 6b2 beltline , ee was pulling a piece belt from under the beltline with a pair of channel locks , when ee felt a sharp pain in lower back on the left side .
employee was replacing bags in baghouse , bending over and pulling bags , strained lower back .
during the process of digging & piling shell the boom hoist cable broke . one end of the cable smashed through the windshield striking ee . bruises & minor cuts on legs , left ring finger tip cut off , left middle finger broke , needed surgery .
a reportable roof fall occurred in box canyon mains , entry 9 at xcut 28. the fall was approx 20 ' wide , 20 ' in length , and 10 ' high .
ee bent over to check the oil level in a roofbolter and a piece of rock fell from the roof and struck him in the right back .
ee was positioning liners when the mechanic on the outside of the chute was assisting with a spud wrench to line up the liner to insert a bolt . the ee in the chute got finger in the bolt hole of the liner , while the employee out of the chute inserted the spud wrench to line it up . the finger was smashed in-between the liner and the spud wrench .
the lateral ( sideboard ) had come off the plant conveyor belt and coworker turned off the conveyor to locate the lateral . ee proceeded to accommodate the lateral ( pick it up & position it on the belt ) but ee did not notice that there was a stone falling . the stone struck ee between the nape of the neck , head and shoulders .
ee had donned his welding hood & was preparing to strike an arc . as he nodded his head to make the hood fall , a small foreign object fell into his left eye . he tried to wash it out unsuccessfully . went to rmc e.r . the evening of the 25th & had a small piece of steel removed from his eyes .
ee had just locked out on the a-side overland belt system . he was walking away from the lock box when he slipped and fell and heard a pop in his right ankle . ee sustained a muscle sprain to his right ankle .
employee was pushing open a garage door to install some light and felt pain in his right forearm . he reported it to company official but did not go to doctor . pain got worse and ee went to doc tor on 3-31-01. doctor prescribed medication andsplint to help immobilized arm . returned to work .
ee was hitting troughing roller with hammer to free it from rocks . ee's left hand and forearm were pulled between roller and conveyor belt . ee was able to pull his arm free .
ee was moving from the platform between the cab and the glad hands when ee's foot slipped off step . ee caught self by grabbing the handle on the side of the tractor with ee's left hand . ee felt pain in ee's left shoulder .
employee was injured on 10/04/2015 and continued to work until 11/03/2015 when doctor changed treatment and took him off work . he was reinstalling guarding when he turned and slipped hyperextending his right knee . all personal safety items were being used . it did not involve compliance issues , no equipment involved . it did not involve job proficiency or attitude .
ee was removing the tail pulley from 7bc1q . when he reached over and pulled ont he tail pulley experiencing a sharp pain in his lower back .
ip was in process of completing a delivery to customer site . foot became tangled in rope between wheel chocks causing ip to fall . ip place arms out to break fall and when landed caused fracture of the bone .
the driver positioned his truck in the pit to be loader , and reached over to the dash to get his load count report as the loader was approachingthe truck to dump the bucket witht he loader . the operator dropped the bucket full of coal striking the top of the box causing the truck to bounce , resulting in whip lash to the truck driver .
ee strained his neck while shoveling . ee kept on working with no restrictions until 11/18/04 . ee went to doctor and was off thursday and friday ( 11/18 & 11/19 ) . ee came back on monday ( 11/22 ) with no restrictions . i ( safety officer ) was on vacation when ee went out . ( ee is a hunter . )
ee was cutting block stone with rock hammer when the hammer bounced back and hit him in forehead .
the worker was servicing the rubber tire dozer at the central crusher stockpile . upon finishing the task , the worker returned to the lube truck cab by placing both feet on the access step hold ing the upright grab iron with his right hand while reaching for the truck door handle with his left hand . his feet slipped & he fell approx . 3'to the ground striking his left side .
ee was disconnecting the hydraulic hoses to the scraper pans connected to the john deere tractor he stepped off the tractor landing on a hydraulic hose causing him to twist his left ankle .
ee and other were on miner section to change supply cars at end of the track . ee pulled supply trip toward the section . as he was doing this , the weight of the trip pushed him toward the end of the section . ee jumped off his motor , and caused a fracture to his left leg .
employee was in the process of removing debrie from a clean out system on a bag house . after the employee locked out the system , he proceeds to move the gear on the rotary valve using a pipe wrench while trying to free the object with his other hand . as the object loosens his hand falls forward into the flights cutting his ring and middle finger on his left hand .
employee bumped shin on corner of piece of metalcausing abrasion on shin . medical complications resulted in swelling of leg and restricted duty .
ee stepped off a platform and started having pain in lower back . dr. has diagnosed him as having degenerative disc disease . `` see attached dr.'s notes . ''
ee was performing regular duties he cut his ringfinger ( left hand ) on the cat walk required two stitches his occurred at the slurry .
when attempting to clear out built up coal in the chute above the sample systems secondary cutter , the technician's lt. arm was caught by the cutter . the tech . had surgery 8/26/02 & 8/28/02 fo r compartment syndrome .
employee was cutting board with a torch overheadand a foreing object bounched off glasses and entered right eye .
miner climbed up to retrieve lunch bucket from the cab and when ee went to exit ee missed the step and fell to the ground .
struck head on crossmembers at screen .
2 ees were air lancing hopper at c8 vibrating screw ; because they were using same air outlet the air pressure was reduced and injured ee pryed and dug at material in hopper . this caused him to severely strain his left shoulder .
employee was operating lead locomotive going outby , locomotive jumped track into cross cut striking rib throwing him forward and landed on radio locomotive antenna sticking him in right arm and curled in arm . ppe was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
ee was grinding on a metal when a piece of metal went into his right eye .
roof fall above anchorage in 22-right belt line , # 3 entry , xc 87+50 extending to xc 88 approximately 115 feet in length and 22-feet in width . this panel was mined july 2007 and it is believed that the water , heat and humidity along with the dry winter air now in progess may be a contributing factor of changes in the roof conditions .
employee was changing a metal flange at cyclone number 15 in the flot plant . he removed his gloves to place nuts on related bolts , then lifted the flange before placing gloves back on his hands . the flange had a sharp wear point on the inside which lacerated his right middle finger .
a roof fall occurred on the # 2 unit , producing section . the fall is in the # 4 entry @ crosscut 6. the fall measures approximately 18 feet long , 18 feet wide and 12 feet thick . the area is supported with 5 foot torque tension rebar bolts and 12 ft cable bolts .
a mechanical problem occurred on the koepe man cage . the overspeed cam that operates the overspeed contact was loose/not making good contact and would not allow the koepe to function properly . the mine was evacuated of the 40 persons in the mine . the problem was corrected and koepe back in service at approximately 3:30pm . no injuries ; no other concerns .
a non-injury event occurred to camp run portal elevator due to the severe weather occurring at the time , 8 miners became trapped on the elevator when power was lost . back-up electrical power was set , one of the 2 rope grips failed to release . schindler elevator service was called to correct the condition . the miners were freed at approximately 12:01 am 02/06/2010 .
ee bent over to pick up a set of keys . when ee stood back up ee claimed ee felt a pop in ee's back . employee was at work following incident on modified duty for 9 days before ee's claim was denied and ee was sent home on personal injury leave . upon investigation it was determined that this injury was not caused in the workplace but it is being filed as a matter of precaution .
ee reports while shoeling , felt pain in back . did not become lost time until 12-7-00 .
a roof fall was found by pre-shift foreman . he notified me . re-routed escapeway , timbered and dangered off , did not clean up . had safety talk with all employees . notified msha and omsl agencies
stockpiling ore at mill site stockpile area . dump truck dumped his load on stockpile and began to pull away from pile . while slowing pulling forward and beggining to turn to the right , the hau l truck ran over a dozer operator who was in front of dump truck the injury was fatal .
a roof fall was discovered on the c-6 section ( # 4 crosscut , between # 13 and # 14 room ) . the fall occurred 450 ' outby the feeder . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' supertwist bolts and 12 ' cable bolts . no ventilation , travelways , or equipment were effected . no injuries resulted from this fall .
hoist was down from 5:30 am until 10:30 am rod broken on moter brake .
employee was removing a door on the head gate of the longwall in order to get to a sprocket . a rock fell from the roof hitting employee on the back of the head and shoulder area .
employee reached in to clear some bags that were stuck in the machine . the machine had been stopping and starting , and while it was stopped for a noticeable period of time , ee thought is would be safe to retrieve the bags . instead of shutting the machine off first , he reached in . the machine started again and the employee's hand was caught between the belt and the rollers .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal at the # 1 entry of the 5w headgate # 1 setup room face at +145 . the fall was approximately 16 - 17 feet long , approximately 17 feet wide and approximately 6 1/2 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilaation or passage of workers . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 26 f
ee was operating remote box on offside of pan ofthe highwall miner . the conveyor chain started , threw a rock out and struck him in the chest . healleged it caused pain in his chest and strained his back .
ee was installing lagging in steel arches & strained his back .
employee says he fell down wet steps at ball mill in early august . witness listed is not known to have worked at mine . ee did not report accident to his supervisor and none of his co-workers are aware that he fell down stairs . reported to comp . management 9-5-08 by handing letter to another ee to pass on . freegold is denying claim of injury thru workers comp .
ee was loading 50 lb bags rock dust onto pallet felt pain in middle lower back .
approx . 12 tons of material fell from the highwall onto the canopy at the no . 1 portal . the material measured approx . 0 '' -2 ' in thickness , 12 ' wide x 8 ' long . the material was removed from the canopy and a replacement canopy was installed .
ee bent down to pick up a section of angle iron & felt a pain in his back .
ee was bent over moving framework when he twisted and felt a sharp pain in his back .
not a dolese employee . customer suffered apparent heart attack in his truck near scale house . customer died enroute to hospital .
emp driving r35 # 1 from shot rock area . drive shaft broke on trk , causing it to pick up speed . emp paniced and jumped from moving truck .
ee claims to have been struck by a sledge hammer . hammer cuaght safety harness causing him to wrench his neck .
a maintenance crew was working under the primarycrusher fixing a support beam which required attention . ee was standing on a horizontal beam 2 ' off the floor . as he stepped down off the beam he scrapped or lacerated his leg on the beam .
ee was attenpting to remove a stuck shovel tooth pin with a double jack . a piece of the pin flew off and went under the sleeve of his shirt and coveralls . his arm was lacerated and required suturing . the piece of steel was not imbedded in his arm .
ee was lifting a drill subshaft , when she placed it on the floor it dropped and fell on her lt. index finger causing a laceration requiring sutures .
climbing into a gehl , he bumped his rt . elbow on the cage . the elbow swelled & he went to the dr. he was released to return to work .
help to load 4 '' h-beams . he stated his back became tight . diagnosied with sprained lumbard started missing time 8/13/07
ee was filling keroene heaters used to apply heat to belts . the skidsteer loader w/fork attachment being used to raise kerosene tank to raised heaters . after ee raised tank into place hie exit ed skidsteer loader . while exiting , he stepped on ice , lost balance and fell into fork attachment striking his rib cage .
bag busted on bagger , ee ran to cut off clay and he pulled a muscle in his right leg .
ee was making repairs on joy miner on floor jack . he was driving a keeper pin out of jack with a ball pin hammer . a piece of the hammer broke off and entered the left hand of ee . ee did not start missing time until 7/20/04 .
ee stepped into the 6 inch gap between the wood pallet and the edge of the pallet lift ( pallet jack ) with his left leg . the ee sprained his left knee caused from the leg entering the the smal l area . employee has been placed on light duty .
a roof fall was discovered during a regular weekly mine examination . the intersection of section3 right entry 4 at crosscut 24 broke above the roof bolts . escapeways & ventilation not affected
ee was shoveling on # 7 head and pulled a muscle in his lower back . he worked to the end of the shift .
emp stepping over silt fence to take a water sample when their weight shifted causing their foot to slip in mud and twist their right knee resulting in pain . emp did not think they needed to go to doctor at that time . pain became worse over time and now is needing surgery .
removing center section from scoop and top pin in center section fell out hitting the left pointer finger , smashing it . he was taken to greenbrier valley medical center and received 6 sutures . he was given full release .
the ee attempting to clean up a bag so he could adentify the number put his hand on it while it was moving . this resulted in a laceration to his right thumb .
ee stepped in wet cement during a cementing operation at the site of a well plugging operation 5/20/11 . a chemical burn developed over the weekend on his left foot . the ee sought medical attention on 5/23/11 .
ee tack welding wearing welders jacket but not gloves . slag fell into sleeve . ee had shirt with polyester lining , caught on fire . 1st & 2nd deg.burns to forearm .
the employee was moving a stored scsr cache and felt a tear feeling in his abdomen area . after consulting with a doctor on the following monday it was determined that the employee was in need of surgery do to a hernia . the employee was placed on restricted duty .
emp got a piece of metal in his eye , but not sure when it happened . emp feels it must have been at work , but can't give a specific incident .
ee was replacing side rails on the 6x16 seco shaker screen.he was holding a bold head with his right hand and using an impact wrench to tighten a nut on the bolt.ee engaged the nut on the bolt turned catching his glove and wrapping around his hand . the bolt head cut through the glove and cut his right 3rd . finger .
while mounting a railcar , employee felt a pop in his left shoulder . employee was given full duty release from local doctor on 5/14 , but went back to the doctor on 5/17 . the doctor on 5/17 put the employee off work , for further treatment , until june .
ee reported incident to his supervisor on the day after it happened ( 5/8/03 ) the ee rep't it to the safety dept on 5/11/03 . on 5/12/03 ee requested to be seen by a dr. ee sent to co. dr 5/12/03 light duty restrictions given
ee was adjusting throttle on skid - steer . wrench slipped and lt. hand struck moving part .
ee was assisting in putting jeep on track . got his thumb stuck in track jack . crushed right thumb from knuckle to end of thumb .
employee was removing a keyway from a pulley shaft using a punch and hammer when the punch fractured perjecting a piece of metal in his left forearm .
ee was walking and sprained left knee . 1st day missed is 9/20/11 .
ee stated he climbed over a rail on the dredge/float in order to grease a pulley , when stepping back over rail onto walkway , ee stated he felt a twing of pain in left knee . 5/5/08 ee was seen by dr. and was told he a strain/sprain to left knee , gave ee medicine . ee started missing work on 5/7/08 .
driver and passenger were driving down the haul road to pete bajo pit from leeville . when trying to make a left hand corner the truck tipped on the passenger side .
the portal passenger elevator went down at approximately 8:16 am . schindler elevator service was called to evaluate the occurrence and correct the problem . the elevator was returned to service at approximately 10:03 am . a defective door switch , which allows the elevator door to shut , was found to be the problem .
employee hearing tested and diagnosed with a standard threshold shift per company doctor jeff crawford m.d .
the employee was bending over to turn a slusher on when he struck the brake handles with his face/head .
ee returning to loader for a load turning around a pillar while downshifting and drove through low spot causing wheel to jerk as he was turning causing left hand to separate and strike door frame of truck .
inj stated that as he was walking he stepped on a piece of rock & fell twisting/fracturing his left ankle .
person was aked to check out the reason # 23 coalbelt went down . he threw the breaker , opened the panel and found the fuse bad . while installing a new fuse he touched a live 480 v wire and burn ed his right hand . his burns required dressing .
mounting a rotary chain to a d8 bulldozer , pieceof metal flew and punctured right wrist .
ee stated while carrying a box of powder his foot got stuck in the mud . when he attempted to pull free , he fell & twisted his back . a doctor placed him on light duty .
ee was cleaning grizzly bars off a hopper . the hopper is fed by a feeded belt . when reaching for a rock the ee's hand was pinched between the rock and the headpulley of the feeder causing lacerations to ee's right hand .
ee was shovelng clean out area around conveyor .
workr was moving a piece of sandstone when he twisted and strained a muscle in his back .
ee was drilling a starter hole in the duct work . the drill left a piece of metal shaving . ee had gloves on , but when he tried to pull the duct work , a piece of the metal cut his finger .
employee was bolting top . small rock fell . hit ee on lt. arm , slicing it open . required 12 stitches .
employee was stepping up to climb onto his motor grader when his left knee popped causing him to fall . he worked full duty until his surgery on 10/23/02 . he returned to work on his next schedu led work day on 10/24/02 on restricted duty .
i was drilling a hole to install a roof bolt-after drilling first section i lowered drill head to insert extension , first still was in the roof , as i put extension into drill head the first st ill fell from roof striking my right hand , small finger . the injury did not involve any aspect of compliance with rules or regulations , job skills , attitude or protective items . gloves were w
while dumping load moved truck forward grade of the ground became unlevel and truck tipped over .
a fall occured at 3 south track # 60 block . the fall was 17 ' long 10 ' wide and 7 ' high . no injury occurred . the area is the old manline track . the area was dangered off and will be re-bolted .
ee stated he was assisting constructing a metal overcast , & while lifting on a piece of the metal overcast he experienced swelling in the right testicle .
on 8/02/2007 a continuation of an unintentional roof fall occured at cross cut # 61 in # 6 entry on the 3rd south sub main . the roof fell between two sets of arches in an intersection that had been cribbed and rail bared . the roof fall will be cleaned up .
employee was releasing the brake on the lower ramp shore wire ( head end ) and the brake released improperly allowing the hand wheel to spin rapidly . the wheel caught the employee's hand and caused a laceration and a fracture to the right middle finger . ee was allowed to work . reportable for fracture and medical treatment .
ee alleged carpal tunnel syndrome on 1.28.16. after rescheduling appointments multiple times , ee was diagnosed with bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome on 6.13.16. ee terminated employment on 5.15.16. treatment is still pending at this time .
a fall of roof occurred in the southwest submain at crosscut # 56 , entry # 3. the fall measured approximately 18 feet wide x 18 feet long and the thickness is unknown . the area was supported with 6 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
alleged incident-ee knocked # 9cm breaker , was removing the cathead and received an electrical shock while their neck was against the cable . incident is still under investigation . cause is unknown at this time . compliance with rules/regs at this time is not factor , incident involved equipment , job skills not a factor , miner proficiency may be a factor , ppe not a factor at this time .
ee was cutting a piece of belt for skirting in tail piece on # 2 belt and had belt laying across his leg .
ee was working with a comealong , pulling the feeder belt out from under the feeder . while cranking on the comealong , putting tension on the belt , ee felt something pull in his stomach .
slid into the ditch due to weather conitions
injured employee was standing next to a parked skid steer loader talking to emp . sitting inside the skid steer loader . ie turned to walk away from skid steer loader & tripped on the loader's bucket which had a 4 ' extension attached to the bucket . ie tripped & fell to ground producing a fracture to rt 5th finger . positive x-ray diagnosed on 8/03/2011 . ie initially refused treatment .
ee is a dozer operator . he back over a rock that was not in his eyesight causing a jolt of the machine . this jolt caused him to be jarred severely causing a hurt back . he missed two days and is not back to work with very little problem .
ee was hosing down with a dilute caustic solution . ee felt an itching sensation in his right foot . ee did not report the incident to his supervisor until 6/03 . ee went home and discovered that he had a small chemical burn area in his right foot . the affected area became infected due to a lack of prompt medical treatment and poor personal hygiene .
employee was assembling conveyer and complained of being weak , dizzy and hard to breathe . it hadbeen determined that this illness is work related .
the ee was pushing a hoist cylinder nto the bottom pin of a 170 ton haul truck . as he pushed he was in an awkward position and felt a strain in his back . as time went on pain persisted , a trea tment by a chiropractor was necessary .
while placing a clip on a cooling system radiator , the radiator slipped off the frame and pinnedee against a railing .
sc511 screensizer chute plugged with hot material which emanates gases that combust when exposed to air . flames escape through doors located on the top of the screensizer . no damage to equipment or personnel . equipment is designed to withstand this condition .
while in the process of shield recovery , ee was assisting in placing beams on # 174 shield . when the 2nd beam was placed onto the shield , a pieceof rock fell striking him on left hand .
employee was changing cutting edge on loader . the spinning bolt cut his middle finger on left hand . he received 7 stitches at the clinic in webster wi .
employee slipped on the wet floor while pulling and dragging 2 '' water hose on the monrail .
ee was working on the main line packer and cleaned the feed spout that caused ee to cut hand . there is a cut on left thumb and looks like it needs stitches .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by a mine examiner on the lyons mains section . the roof fall was in the # 6 entry between spad # s l416 and l462 and measured 82 ft. l x 18 ' w x 12 ft. h. no people or equipment were damaged or ventilation disrupted .
ee was inserting a piece of drill steel in the coal drill , lever was bumped causing the drill head to advance , mashing his right index finger .
man was helping unload 8 inch `` i '' beams from supply car onto a scoop car to be used on a belt drive take up unit . men were sliding it over to the scoop and man got his finger pinched between b eam and edge of scoop bucket .
employee was was filling 50 lb product bags , when a guard came loose and was ejected from the filling spout , striking him in his lower back area .
while stringing lines to work off roof bolt holes , the ee stated that he pulled something in his upper back .
employee was washed railcar and was closing lids . as he was closing the last lid he felt something pull in the lower left side of his back .
the employee was using a wrench to loosen wedge bolts that hold the bowl liner in the crusher . the employee leveraged the wrench to release the bolt . immediately , ee felt a sharp pain in ee's left foot as ee's weight transitioned . an x-ray was performed and revealed a fracture of the fifth metatarsal bone in ee's left foot .
employee opened door of front end loader to talkto truck driver , foreign body blew into left eye .
ee was greasing standing on a ladder greasing a haul unit in the lube bay . he was standing on the third ( 3rd ) rung from the top of the ladder . when he pulled on the grease line that was attached to the grease fitting , he lost his balance and fell 8 feet to the ground landing between two grease barrells .
ee was attempting to loosen the pitman arm from the steering box on a suburban . he held one hammer stationary against the pitman arm , while hitting it with another hammer . as the hammer made c ontact , it slipped , twisting in his hand & glancing off his other hand . this peeled the skin back between the thumb & index finger requiring 14 stitches . his right hand & that hammer handle w
ee was driving a ramcar when he hit a hole in the travelway , jarring his back .
a catwalk broke while an employee was assisting in a screen change on 21 rotex . the employee dropped 30 '' to the floor and struck his right shoulder against the product chutes on the east side of the rotex .
ee sustained a sprained ankle as a result of a fall .
the ee was standing on a timber ( 8 ' x 4 ' x 4 '' ) and unloading others , he slipped and fell striking his right wrist forearm and elbow against the side of the scoop bucket .
an unintentional roof fall on hazy main in # 5 entry at spad no . 12226. the fall was approx . 50 ' long , 20 ' wifde , and 4 ' thick . 4 ' resin bolts used . no injuries .
ee's belly dump truck was stuck while trying to unload a coal pile . after the front end loader pulled her off the coal pile she was putting thetow cable back on the loader when she injured the tendons in her right wrist .
ee was checking the condition of the faces on # 3unit at the time of this incident . he had just arrived on the section and was performing his on shift examination of the faces . a rock measuring 8 ' by 2 ' by 1/2 '' fell from the roof striking himon the head . it knocked him to the ground and landed on his legs .
12 c long wall using sledge hammer to break up rock that was jammed at headgate . as he swung hammer he felt pain in right shoulder . he continued to work normal duties until 1/3/02 . at this tim e lost days began .
ee climbed up drill toward cable foot slipped felt pain in lower back
ee was operating a roof bolting machine at the face area . he had drilled a bolt hole and was attempting to push a bolt assembly into the hole . he bolt caught on the side on the hole and stoppe d suddenly . ee felt pain in back . the was no damage , improvement or other factors involved .
employee was opening a metal door on a pre mixer . he let the door go and the hinges allowed it to swing down and hit a pile of hydrated lime . this material came up and got into his eyes under his faceshield and glasses he was wearing . he was prescribed antibiotics for his eyes .
ee was struck on top of his head by drawrock which resulted in a neck strain , while emptying the dust box . ee worked until 2-7-06 then started missing time .
ee was getting out of grove crane and slipped off bottom step , hurting lower back .
ee walking across a four foot ditch , lost his balance and fell resulting in a fractured wrist .
employee was loading haul trucks with an excavator . a loaded haul truck was signaled to leave the loading site . as it pulled away , the left rearoutside tire failed violently . the air blast fro m the tire failure threw a small rock at a high velocity into the cab of the excavator striking injured's jaw on lower left side . his mandible was fractured & he sustained a laceration .
helping another mechanics fixing a motor , the motor was unsecure and one part of the motor went down and hit the head of the employee . the employee was there without his helmet at that moment .
while steam cleaning a piece of equipment , the injured accidently squeezed the trigger of the wand and hit the right side of his right foot . the outside of the foot received 1st and 2nd degree burns .
ee was assigned the task to dispense diesel fuel into a bulldozer . ee noticed a rock that was hindering him from getting close enough for the fuel nozzle to reach the dozer . ee attempted to move the rock with the help of coworker . ee strained a muscle on the right side of his lower back .
on september 19 , 2014 mine management was notifiedofan occupational illness . the emplyoee was awarded benefits due to occupational pneumoconiosis .
contractor was walking by the # 3 fairchild scoop and lost his footing when he tripped and hit his chin on the canopy of the scoop . he was treated at raleigh general hospital where he received two ( 2 ) sutures .
ee was showing another ee how to properly change the new filter he installed on sat . after explaining how , he opened the lid to the high pressure filter without isolating the system and bleddi ng the pressure off . the lid to the high pressure vessel blew up into his face .
bent over to pickup a wooden 4 x 4 wne he felt pain in his lower back .
while working on an overhead crane , the ee became disoriented and is believed to have suffered heat exhaustion .
roof fall dimensions h 7-8 ' l 200 ' w 19 ' , geology soft medium to dark gray shale , roof support 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
ee stepped over some process piping and felt a pain in his right leg . on 06/24/05 ee begin losing work .
we had repeated power failure due to incoming voltage low . this caused the dyna-brake to loose its memory . re-programed dyna-brake . msha was notified at 12:15 pm that the hoist was down and wa s called at 1:00 pm when back in service .
the injured was die grinding stainless steel parts in the maintenance shop . after grinding he looked up and metal fleck ' s that were on his safety glasses fell into his eye .
loader bucket edge struck corner of pillow h 20 west turning loader sharpley to right , twisting operator in seat .
employee was stepping up on a plateform to grease conveyor belt couplings when he felt a pop/snap in his knee
ee was carrying box of light bulbs from the warehouse to the back of his truck . as he was carrying the box , he tripped over a screw that was in the isleway outside of the warehouse between the electrician shop and the warehouse door . he fell to the ground and said he felt the wind was knocked out of him . become recordable injury when on 8/25/10 a ct revealed fractured ribs .
ee was making belt splice with belt monkey when slate bar slipped striking and bruising left shoulder .
the ee was using a sledge hammer to clear a bin . on his backswing the employee lost his grip with his right hand , causing the weight of the hammer to shift , straining his left shoulder .
the injures employee was adjusting a conveyor belt when he accidently placed his left hand on a moving roller . his had was pulled underneath the roller crushing his hand .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 4 face in the 4 right crosscut of the # 2 section . fall measured 20 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' high . fall was on top of a fletcher rrii roof bolting machine . no miners were affected by the fall .
ee was exiting company vehicle when wind caught door slamming it on ee's middle finger of left hand causing cut which required medical treatment ( e.g . 4 sutures ) .
ee stepped off a ledge and hurt his right knee .
while working on the feed hopper at the plant , the miner scraped ee's left arm against the edge of a sharp piece of metal and cut ee's lower arm . ee went to the hospital where ee received two stitches .
ee stepped onto empty pallet that was on the new bag storage rack . the empty pallet was not completely supported on the west side . when he stepped on the west side , his weight caused the palle t to flip up and it hit his hand , breaking the outside bone of his right hand .
ee had finished helping unload pipe and tubing at the screen room and was cleaning up for lunch . he walked back to the primary power house with co-worker to wash their hands . ee went into conv ulsions . ems was called and transported him to the hospital .
the ee hand was laying on top of the roof bolt machine when a piece of top brock fell and struck him on the left middle finger .
employee moving dragline cable stepped into a dragline shoe track and ee's left knee buckled . pain and swelling developed over the remainder of ee's shift and persisted over the weekend . employee referred to doctor on 5/23 for evaluation . mri completed 6/2 .
victim was attempting to hook up a miner booster pump to the front of the forklift operated by another ee . ee accidently hit the articuation lever and injured was caught between the forks and the pump resulting in a fractured pelvis .
finger locks up caused by coninual use of impacttools over many years without using gloves . scheduled for surgery . received diagnosis from doctor on 2/1/02 . no evidence of prior treatment .
stepped off his tractor into a puddle . rolled his foot on a rock in the puddle which rolled his right knee inwards . possible torn ligament . sent to specialist and mri . first shift missed 10-27-03 .
ee was bolting near the face . a slab approx . 30 '' x 18 '' x 6 '' fell and struck his hard hat and right shoulder . he returned light duty .
ee stated he was walking out of pump bldg . at 31x river mains and struck his head against topof door frame .
a roof fall occurred in the 1a submain , crosscut # 12 in the # 1 entry . the fall is 8 to 10 feet high , 22 feet long and 18 feet wide .
an unintenti0nal roof fall occurred in first left submains # 4 entry at break # 53. the fall was approx 20 ' by 25 ' by 40 '' .
employee was watching cm operator cut down stone during stone work when a piece of small metal came off the cutter head striking employee in the right cheek . ppe was not a factor , mining equipment/mining systems was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , miner proficiency may be a factor .
employee was in process of removing lagging from # 3 tail pulley . the chain used to hold the belt was under rated . chain broke and come-a-long struck worker in back of right shoulder . worker sus tained contusion of right shoulder .
ee stated that the day before , 8-6-01 he was putting a shuttle valve on a shield and aggravated his back .
ee had been painting steel beams with a brush out of a 5 gallon bucket of primer paint . he moved the 5 gallon bucket and when he put it down , his lower back went out .
injured was pulling on a continuous miner cable to get it out of the travelway . when he tried to lift the cable up , he twisted his right leg . he did not seek medical attention at that time . it began to bother him later on and sought medical attention . he began to miss work beginning on january 10 , 2012 .
injured was operating a 21 sc shuttle car on the # 2 section mmu 003-0 while traveling 1a the # 5 entry 40 ' inby the intersection , a rib of approx . size 29 '' l x 36 '' w x 1 '' to 6 '' thick fell into th e operator's compartment , striking him on the right leg , resulting in possible knee damage .
a roof fall measuring 30 ' length , 20 ' wide , and 7 ' thick was discovered in the return entry 1500 ' outby the working face . the area was developed nov 07 with 5 ' torque tension roof bolts . the fall occurred due to shale mixed with coal streaks above the anchorage zone . fall location was in # 2 entry on 1st left panel near spad 58748 .
ee opened a can of pneu wear and inhaled vapors
a roof fall occurred at x-cut # 79 an old 6b track . the fall was about 120'l , 20'w , and 4 to 7'h . the area was bolted with 5 ' torque tension bolts . the area will be cleaned up and rebolted .
ee was examing fresh cut coal face , when a piece of rock , approx 4 ' x 3 ' x 2 '' , fell from the top . the rock struck the ee's hand , smashing it against the boom of the roof bolter . this caused a laceration on ee's left hand , right shoulder and lower leg .
ee was operating the miner when a rock rolled off the rib hitting him in the side and foot .
ee was bolting when hot lime traveled to the face in the water and ee came in contact with it . this in turn gave him burns on his skin .
was using a railroad jack to jack up a header . when ee was letting the header down the jack caught and the bar came up and hit ee in the chin . this resulted in a small laceration and a chipped bottom tooth .
ee was helping co-worker with welding a plate for shaker 2 & something went into employee's left eye causing pain . he then went to occupational health & they referred him to eye doctor . he has a scratch on his left eye due to a foreign object . must have flown into his eye . eye protection was being worn at the time .
employee was helping unload coke railcars . when the car was empty he was to unhook the chain connecting the car shaker to railcar . he did not do so and when the hoist was lifted and car starte d to move the tension on the chain caused it to snap and swing in his direction and come in contact with his left arm , face , and ribs .
rock fall occurred on the 4 right panel off 6 west submains in the # 6 entry starting at break # 6 and extending to break # 8. fall measured approximately 19 ' wide x 188 ' long x 10 ' thick .
the ee was helping to install a curved protective liner on the raw mill roll yoke . a hooking eye was welded onto the yoke and a 1 1/2 ton chain hoist was used to lift the yoke . as the chain wa s being tightened , the eye broke causing the yoke to fall striking the ee in the right shin .
he was getting into a pick up truck when his foot slipped on the rocker panel causing him to twist his right knee . he continued to work at his regular duties until 6/16/09 when he was removed from work for a medical miniscus tear of the right knee . ( ee started losing time again on 1/14/10 due to increased pain and pending surgery . )
ee was loading flue dust into a truck . a rope used in the loading process became entangled around his leg . the ee attempted to break his fall by grabbing a handrail . the ee's left shoulder was in the process of controlling his fall .
the ee was rock bolting standing on muck pile ofuneven material . he stepped back to pull the bolter out of the hole onto a rock & twisted his right knee . he reported the injury to his supervis or but did not go to dr until 1/17/01 . he recd a full duty release to return to work we were unaware he was continuing to have problems with his knee until we were notified on 5/4/01 by worke
a roof fall was discovered in # 4 entry 1 break inby spad 480 the estimated size of roof fall is 6ft high 18ft wide and 40ft long . no injuries where reported as a result of this roof fall .
employee stated he felt pain in his right wrist when inserting the male plug from the charger cable into the female plug of the battery cable tocharge batteries . after an examination upon the doctor's visit , the clinical impression reveals tendonitis of the right wrist .
while opening a silo gate the ee felt a strain in ee's lower back .
employee went to grease line for # 2 conveyor when ee tripped , not sure what ee tripped over , tried to catch self and hand landed on a rock causing a laceration . laceration required 4 stitches .
emp was climbing onto temp catwalk , lost balance and fell onto knee .
ee had rtw in light duty capacity from previous injury 3/9/09 -- was assigned to indoor painting of 9'x15 ' block room using paint roller & 3 & 4 '' paint brushes -- ee alleges that painting activity performed 12/7thru 12/11 resulted in causing pain in right hand .
employee bent down to walk under a kiln dryer and felt a sensation in lower back . an mri revealed a swollen or herniated disk . chiropractic treatment has been administered and there has been no lost time for this plant supervisor .
bicep sprain due to carrying box of large screws at work ( 20 lb box ) .
an unintentional roof fall occurred during retreat mining . as cont . miner was backing from cut the roof measuring approx . 15 ' w x 20 ' l x 3 1/2'h , fell onto miner . a retriever was used to remo ve machine from fall area , no injuries or property damage occurred . area was timbered off and mining resumed on next pillar .
ee went to clean up under the hoist motor coupling and was going to give the motor coupling a quick wipe because it was a ripping grease onto the floor . it caught her glove somehow and pulled her finger into the bolt hole . she felt a tug and a sting and when she looked . the tip of her finger was gone .
ee was setting light plants up for the night mine crew . he was attempting to attach q15 light plant to his pickup , light plant jack was to low so ee attempted tp lift the light plant onto his truck hitch . in doing so he strained his lower back , he went to dr 7/8/08 and was placed in light duty .
ee was deburring bushings he had made for shovel brake side plates . the bushings are 3 '' x3/4 '' long . when he was scaping the ubrr off the edge of one of the bushing with a deburring tool his han d slipped and x he cut his left base of thumb . required sutures .
ee reached with left hand to stop a bag coming down conveyor chute and felt something pop in his left elbow . a visit to doctor on 09/25/2009 revealed a strained tendon and nerve as it was pushed across a bone spur already present at this site . ee was put on light duty until october 1 , 2009. no days of lost work are expected .
while welding , ee chipped some slag & it went in his left ear . ee began missing work on 9/23/03 .
operator 0f 631e , ee collided with another 631e driver by ( ee's name ) injured ee was only person injured .
inj ee was struck on hard hat by draw rock that slid down his back onto his left lower leg resulting in fractures to 4th & 5th metatarsal bone on left foot .
ee was attempting to unhook from a dust trailor when the latch jammed causing him to strainhis back . his back continued to hurt and on 7-15-02 he began to miss work .
while the ee was driving out broken bolts from the ac500 crusher , the 4-pound hammer deflected off of a broken bolt and struck the back of his right hand .
ee was inspecting the bolts condition of a limestone feeder conveyor . ee tripped with the electrical cord when ee tried to prevent falling , when ee tried to pick up an electrical light , & put left hand inside the dolly rail , ee pulled the stop emergency cord but one dolly pinched lt index finger , dislocating it . ee has not missed any days from work but is working on restrictions .
employee was operating shuttle car when rib rolled out pinning right arm aganst shuttle car . employee received 16 stitches to righ forearm .
employee claims that at the end of his shift he was getting off the water truck when he fell . he got up and walked off to his van pool never reported any accident to the mine . hip fracture . hospital contacted asarco today with a verbal phone call . there is no evidence supporting that the accident occurred on property .
ee was traveling into the mine when a rock approx 6 ' x 6 ' x 8 ' rolled down an angle of repose , jumped a safety berm and struck the side of his 992 loader . ee was thrown out of the cab and received a cut on top of his head and on his left elbow .
ee fractured left heel after losing his balance on the upper deck of the omni cone ladder at the feed box and falling 4 ft. to deck below , weight landing on heel .
ee was trouble shooting kiln 4 lime skip and was jogging the skip for testing purposes . he left the jog station , proceeded around the back of the skip area towards the north , and hit his left leg on a piece of expanded metal that was propped up against the structure . when this leg caught the expanded metal , the other leg caught the inlet pipe to the air compressor .
member was at the raw coal silo helping get feeders running . water had been utilized to wash raw coal . when water and mud broke loose and knocked membert to floor causing a laceration to his left upper eye lid which required 12 stitches ,
employee was bailing water out of a boat with a 3.5 gallon bucket . the employee twisted back causing a lumbosacral sprain .
ee was welding overhead when a spark or piece of slaqg entered ear and burned ear drum . ee was diagnosed on 9-22 after seeing physician . ee was scheduled to take one weeks vacation week of 8-2 5 and will return to work on 10-2-00 .
employee stated while removing structure from the 4 right longwall belt . he grabbed a top roller and went to throw it onto the top of the belt and felt pain in his right shoulder and bicep area .
mimeber was putting grease in right side tank . he slipped and fell when he was crossing over to the left side tank . he was not diagnosed until 9/8/05
when the kiln was turned and water came in contact with hot kiln chains and materials , a sudden positive pressure was created throughout the kiln system , ejecting steam and hot dust through an open door on the drag conveyor , causing the ee to be burned .
fractured right big toe when it was caught between clevis and frame of headgate drive .
employee was getting off of the drill . he snagged a cable bolt and fell down . he somehow jammed his right shoulder and returned in a resticted capacity .
miner was carrying a piece of debris when ee tripped over an outstretched hose and dropped down to one knee .
ee was standing on top of a conveyor belt and reaching for a cable when his foot slipped causing pain in his leg .
employee was walking to his ride when a suttlecar cable hit him on the knee . he did not miss work but was on restricted duty for 14 days . he returned to full duty 1-8-08 .
ee was bent over in a small area & tried turningto tighten some bolts when his back popped .
ee fractured right forearm when struck by a wheel unit of a cable dolley while raising the wheels for transport .
placing punch plate in place , plate slipped and smashed left ring finger between screen and boot . 6 stitches were received at enumclaw er . ie was immediately released to return to work .
employee was removing parts from the instrument repair van . as he stepped out of the van he felt his knee pop . no treatment at the time . didn't get better . had mri found tear of left knee medi al meniscus . surgery on 1/21/03 . lost time .
installing heel plate ( wear iton ) on 992 g caterpillar loader bucket , the mechanic reached to align plate that was located on hydraulic jack , the plate slipped off the jack and landed on left ( 5th digit ) finger .
ee was lubricating a bearing of a conveyor and slip from equipment frame . he try hold from the door of the discharge for avoid a fall to the equipment platform 10 ft height approx . but the doo r opened up and hit him on his arm .
ee was in the process of moving the miner cable over from away from the continuous miner by using a pry bar , when the bar slipped and hit the ee in the mouth disloding a permanent tooth .
wind blew dirt in eye while performing maintenance work . ee received more than one dose of prescription eye drops . this claim is currently being contested .
when getting down from trackhoe after filling up the greaser , he slipped on some grease and landed on his right shoulder . fall resulted in dislocation of right shoulder .
walking on wet scale walkway . left leg slipped and twisted right leg/knee . outboard side of scale walk is 80'x3 ' with 4 ' handrail . first 33 ' was covered with roll roofing for anti-slip . ee exited cab and was walking on non-covered surface .
the employee was trying to get a valve closed using a dead blow hammer , when ee felt pain in ee's right shoulder .
ee was lifting cable to top and felt a strain in lower groin area . he did not miss work or seek medical attention until 3-23-03 , in which i was notified of this accident . on 3-27 he sought med ical attention and was given rest with no lifting or bending and refered to his family doctor .
ee was in the process of spreading a horizontal flange , the residual liquor sprayed him in the left eye . he is not losing any time and is not on work restrictions .
ee was climbing donw off of the lube truck and grabbed the rail with his left hand . when he went to grab the nipple of the grease tank with his right hand he missed his point of contact and fe ll backwards losing his grip and falling approx.ft to the ground landing on his right arm and causing a fracture above the wrist .
details are unavailable . under investigation . doctor report received from ee's personal physician indicates ee stressed from both off-work and work environment . ee has not filed a report of injury or illness .
roof fall in # 2 entry of the mine mouth . the fall measured 4 ' high , 4'wide , and 15 ' long . the fall opened a gap between the highwall and fan housing . no equipment was damaged or injuries occured b/c of the fall .
ee had wet down the muck-pile , while rolling up water hose ee slipped on some residual hard-cap paste landing on ee's right arm . at the end of shift ee requested to be seen by the pogo physician's assistant where it was determined to send ee to fairbanks for an x-ray ; which was definitive for a fracture . ee is onsite currently w/restrictions and a splint/cast .
roof fall - intake slope entry , starting at the outby side of break # 5 , approximately 28 feet long , 17 feet wide and 5 feet in height . no-one was injured and no equipment involved . found at 7:37 am and reported to msha at 7:43 am . msha inspectors on site after reporting by phone .
ee shoveling truck body out and pinched hand between shovel and truck wall .
a roof fall occurred during retreat mining , pulling two rows of bolts in front of the # 1 mrs unit . the area was previously supported with 5 ' hi-tech bolts . there were no injuries to persons . the fall was located at 1-right north-2 at spad 1470 , at break # 39 .
employee was welding on a 18 '' pipe and had completed a portion of the task , he was preparing to roll the pipe , and with his leather welding glove partially on , grabbed the ground lead to the w elder that had been turned off . he received 2nd degree burn to his left hand on the web between finger 1 and 2 .
employee positioned water truck to be filled andproceeded to fill tank . after it was full he went to shut off water valve and twisted his ankle on a rock fixed in the gravel and fell on his left side .
ee pinched finger between dumpster and forklift waile attempting to open lid on dumpster .
employee was on his knees shoveling out the feet when screen wire being transported on the panline hit a rock causing the wire to strike employee on the left shoulder . lost time injury .
unintentioned roof fall 3rd east panel # 4 and # 5 entry and crosscut between the two entries 4 way intersection 2250 ' mask . bolted with 8 ' tr bolt , approx . date of development 5-05 25'x 85 ' w x 9 ' high .
ee was lowering a canopy with his hand on the canopy stack when his right index finger was pulled down into the stack causing a severe laceration on the tip of his finger .
employee poked a hole in the waterline on the 10a booster . the waterline busted and shoved the razor knife that he was holding in his left hand and shoved the blade into his right hand causing a laceration .
ee was shoveling onto a conveyor belt . as he raised a shovel of dirt he felt pain from his right wrist to right forearm . ee sought medical attention on 2-25-03 but continued to work until 3-4- 03 which was his first day off due to injury .
spondylolisthesis , disk degeneration
3/23/00 ee was running a roof bolter & tripped ovr the cable falling into the bumper of the roof bolter , hurting his ribs . he did not go to the dr. 4/6/00 ee was loading a belt structure into scoop & felt a pop in his ribs . ee then went to the dr .
ee was setting shield # 79 on the o-panel longwall and his right foot was caught underneath the pontoon and relay bar of the shield which initally resulted in fractures of the foot and ankle then later required amputation of the right foot .
ee was opening a desk drawer . he pulled it hard and hit his lt. knee . the ee was put on restricted duty after having orthopedic surgery on 6/25/02 .
ee had felt a little lump near belly button area and wasn't feeling any pain at the time . ee started feeling a soreness where the lump was on 07/24/2016 and thought it may go away , it had only gotten worse so ee reported it on 07/26/2016 .
when ee's left foot stepped from the ladder onto the surface it slipped from the ladder to a cleat in the walkway . the ee was able to catch self with ee's right arm by hanging onto a ladder rung . the ee felt strain in shoulder and knee but continued working . asked to see a doctor on 2/4/2106 at which time ee was placed on restriction
an unintentional fall occurred on the second bench of the high wall between the return and portal entries . the piece of rock that fell measured approximately 25 ft long x 14 ft wide x 6 ft thick . in the fall two man trip barns and one 2 man personal carrier were damaged .
ee was changing a punch plate screen on a metso screen top deck . he and another were letting the screen down to the catwalk when it got hung up on the side of the screen . while trying to free it , the screen fell causing him to smash his right index finger between the screen and guard .
ee was helping the mechanic prepare the d11n to weld the left side of the hard bar . ee raised the dozer up in order to crib up the track frame . while dismounting the dozer cab , from the left s ide , ee slipped , falling onto the track frame , hitting his head on the tilt cylinder , suffering a laceration to his head . the site conditions were sunny , temp . of 25 degrees , ground frozen .
on 3/9/2012 at approximately 6:05 pm a roof fall was discovered in an in-active area of the old 2 east mains . this area is not required to be traveled . the fall was breakered off on all approaches . the fall did not effect travel of ventilation.continuation 4/27/12 fall extends to entry # 7 and now meas . approx . 20 ' w. x 130 ' l. x 6 ' thick . has been breakered off on all approaches .
the employee was working inside the 2nd floor mcc electrical room running conduit for new lighting . the employee committed an unsafe act by choosing to ride the trolley box to gain access to the ladder across the room . the employee fell approximately 20 feet landing on back side . the jsa stated employee should have completed the work from the ladder .
was doing a mine examintion ( pre-shift ) of a belt line . as he was walking he slipped on the wet bottom and began to fall . he used his left arm to catch himself and sprained/strained his left elbow .
a roof fall was discovered in the no.1 entry of tg-101 . the fall is between xc 27 & 28. the fall is approximately 50 ft long by 20 feet wide by 18 feet high . the area had been supported by 8 f t torque tension bolts supplemented with wire mesh . there is evidence of slicken-sided materials in the upper portions of the fall .
found roof fall in the no . 1 entry approx . 400 ft from the face . fall occurred in the intersection . 20 ft wide , 20 ft long , 6 ft thick . this is active non-producing status . no coal being produced at this mine . no one was in the mine when the fall occurred .
bent down to pick up a tool belt weighing 3 pounds & felt a pain in his lower back . emergency room evaluation on 10-17 , see specialist on 10-18. eval . by special on 10-18 , off work until 10-20 . rtw on 10-20 .
during cathode harvest in the east tankhouse , he was descending the stairs when his pant leg caught on a grating clip and he fell down the stairs , straining his right shoulder . he was taken to er , given medication for pain . on march 3 , at follow-up , doctor pulled him off work until an mri with orthopedic surgeon could evaluate his condition , approx . 4 weeks .
employee reported on 3-1-2010 he felt pain in right groin while assisting in lifting a steel plate..he did not request medical treament at the time of report . 12 days later he did seek medical treament and was diagnosed with a hernia and scheduled for surgery on 3-26-2010 and estimated to be off work for 4 weeks .
ee was injured when sprayed with freon while working on a d11t dozer . the employee drained the system of freon and while unhooking the air conditioning line when some residual pressurized r134 freon escaped and sprayed on to his right arm and chest area causing frostbite . the location of the line also makes it difficult to get out of the way in such occurrence .
ee was helping remove a guard on his own climbeda chuted while doing this he placed his hand on the scalper laying it on ee's hand he pulled hishand back & slipped falling to floor below break ing his right leg below the knee
ee was walking along the beltline by drive . he said he slipped off planking laid down for walkway , strained left knee . cause of injury was awareness . compliance with rules/regs a factor . miner proficiency may be a factor . safety equipment could be a factor . mining equipment/systems not a factor . first day missed was 1-22-2001 .
ee was going to go though a curtain to get to the intake airway he run over a block putting his scoop in the top with his hand or top of the scoop .
ee was filling windshield wash reservoir and it squirted into right eye . employee was wearing safety glasses . the fluid came up and under the bottom of the glasses .
during a weekly airway examination a roof fall was discovered in # 1 enty 6 cross-cuts outby the face at spad # 998. the fall has been cribbed off with danger signs and will not requir clean-up . the fall measured 20 feet x 20 feet and 6 to 7 feet high . the intersection showed signs of failure during development and 6 foot double-lock bolts were used in the intersection .
employee was dismounting the front end loader in11-99 and injured his left shoulder but no medical attention was saught at the time . recently his shoulder began to bother him and medical atten tion was saught and surgery was done on left rotator cuff on 5-17-00 .
ee said that he turned his knee when dismounting dozer . he does not know what time it occurred . he informed me of event one day after happening .
employee was assisting with installation of grizzly bars in lower feeder when chain slipped , causing bars to pinch thumb between side of feeder and bars resulting in stitches to his left thumb and a broken knuckle . employee is performing his normal duties , but did recieve a prescription .
employee states that while he was adjusting the saw table his foot slipped on the wet floor which may also have had some oil on it . his leg stretched out and he felt a slight pull in his groin . he was prescribed naproxyn and put on temporary restrictions .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 south # 2 intake air course . the fall was located at # 18 xc 2 south # 2 in # 9 entry . the fall measures approximately 40 ' in length by 18 ' wide and approximately 6 ' to 8 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin roof bolts plus 10 ' point anchor bolts .
employee was standing on a pile of marl while working on stamler . his foot slipped as he was pulling on a pipe wrench and he felt a pain between his shoulder blades . he continued to work but p ain came back later that day and he went to the doctor .
employee was operating a shuttle car when the shuttle car struck a rut causing back pain . employee was initially given a full release but on 4/30/2018 ee returned to doctor and was taken off work at which time the incident became reportable .
ee was training conveyor belt , while moving top roller , draw rock measuring 3'x12 '' x3 '' fell catching his hand between belt structure and drawrock . this caused a severe cut to his hand and crush ing injury to his thumb .
while completing maintenance on a vsi crusher and changing teeth , the miner twisted to grab parts and sprained their lower back .
ee needed to shut down the palletizer quikly , but when she tyrned to go to shut down the switch , she slipped on the metal grating and then tripped and fell onto the grating . she has a contusion on the lower lip , left knee , and her ring fingeron right hand .
ee was moving a vibrator from the pocket of one railcar to the the next for transloading material from railcars to trucks when he strained his back . ee did not seek medical treatment until 6/30/14 where he was treated with rx meds , time off , and modified work restrictions .
ee was torching off a bearing race on a shaft . apiece of slag entered the bottom of the tongue area of his boot , burning the top of the foot andbetween the 3rd & 4th toes .
ee was rigging a 1 ton come along to access door which was new and was pulling it in place with come along , then stopped . ee on other side of door with crow bar working the door back of forth when door slanted come along come loose and hit ee in forehead and hard hat causing small laceration to forhead took to clinic for couple of scuture and returned with a the hour .
a maintenance technician at the hartwell site received a laceration to his right index finger requiring 10 stitches . the technician was removing a 6 inch diameter x 3 foot long rubber boot from a 48 ? dewco vibratory screen . the technician was taken to the hart county emergency room for treatment and released .
around 6:30 pm a fire was discovered at the st. leo substation that supplies power to st. leo fan . it is believed an insulator was penetrated , or failed , causing a short circuit and throwing transformer oil , with the oil catching fire and burning poles and the transformer . fire extinguished around 7:30 pm . no problem with training , ppe , mining equipment , or compliance issues .
carrying a piece of rhino-ride from 155 to 158 shield in panline . foot slipped off wet chain & he felt pain in lower back .
ee was unloading pans from a supplies trailer in panel em02 . pans slid off trailer striking ee on top of right foot .
while loading the bolter , ee tripped and cut his arm on a truss bolt . medical treatment injury ( 7 sutures ) .
employee was at the clay pit and operating a trac loader . while backing up , the loader shifted and the movement caused pain to the employee's neck and back . he was taken for medical treatment and returned to work on light duty .
ee walked off the concrete by the cone crusher and landed wrong on his left leg . heard it pop and his leg gave out .
a grass fire started on the west side of the haul road in area-c. the fire burned 15 minutes on permitted mine property . fire was contained and extinguished using mine equipment and local fire departments . fire was reported to msha prior to learning it burned only 15 minutes on mine permit . all personnel were accounted for and uninjured . unknown how the fire started
employee needed to open clean-out gate on elevator belt ( bucket type ) . he was attempting to use ( swing ) an 8 lb . sledge-type hammer , and strained his lower back while doing so . employee said it occurred while swinging from an awkward position .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the # 1 entry , 8475 north . the fall was approxz 30 ' long , approx 20 ' wide and approx 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will be cleaned up .
victim was in boat unhooking chain from pipeline , when operator lifted . chain with loader to move over hook caught causing chain to mash victims finger btween chain and side of boat . we did nt think he was hurt bady but swelling a few days later caused us to sent to dr on 2-7-00 .
ee stepped in a hole and fell down , twisting his knee .
employee alledges laceration of left thumb .
ee was starting switch at head section . as he stepped on a piece of angle iron the angle iron broke causing ee to fall , twisting his knee .
a roof fall in the s.w . ventilation entrys at x-cut # 23 # 1 entry measuring approx 50 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . the area was mined in may 2000 & supported with 6 ' tension rebar roof bolts .
employee stated that while lifting 6 '' pvc pipe to hang on chains along the 1 south conveyor belt he felt a pain in the lower middle section of his abdomen . employee finished the shift but was later diagnosed with a hernia requiring surgery to repair .
injured was bolting top when : a piece of rock fell between bolts and atrs striking canopy the sliding down striking injured .
ee was pulling on a bar , pushing grease jack back on miner . while pulling bar felt pain in groin area .
employee was operating a johnson four-wheeler . as he turned to back the mantrip up he had his right leg crossed under his left leg when he suddenly experienced pain in his right knee .
employee was hit in the right eye with a piece of metal while working on a break in job . eyelid swollen upon leaving jobsite . employee was kept awake from the pain . reported to medical the following morning and was sent to williamson eye center . diagnosed with lid edema , spic . prescribed zylet .
as ee was getting out of a mantrip at x-cut 65 in the left mains , his left foot got stuck in the mud and he strained his left knee as he lifted his leg . ee continued to work until 6/16/2010 , at which time he had surgery on his left knee .
a roof fall approx . 20'x 20'x 9 ' was discovered in the # 2 entry of the 6 rt . panel . the area was soft shale with water coming through the roof .
ee was getting ready to get on the elevator to start his shift . there was a speed reducer sitting on the outside of the elevator on the surface that needed transported underground . ee along with another ee picked up the speed reducer to load it on the elevator when ee felt pain in his lower back . ee finished his shift , went to the dr , diagnosed ee with a pulled muscle .
employee was initiating a bank push of the panline at # 4 shield , e-15 longwall section . the # 3 shield slid back causing strain on the high pressure shield to shield hose , resulting in the manifold breaking off and he was struck in the left thigh by the 1 1/2 '' hose and coupler . the ee sustained a fracture to the left femur of the leg .
the employee was attempting to remove a sprocket from the cutter head of the superior high wall miner by striking it with a 4 lb . hammer . where upon a small piece of metal broke off of the sprocket striking the employee and becoming lodged in his left eye .
while trouble shooting a slipping sample conveyor belt , the employee reached into the head pulley area and caught his right arm resulting in injuries including a fractured little finger , fract ured ulna , chipped elbow , and lacerated bicep .
while loading 18 ' lengths of 1 rebar for snow fence posts . a length of rebar slipped off the rack pinching the meaty palm side end of the ring finger between the rebar and the bed of the pickup . resulting injury was deep 15mm laceration to tip of ( r ) ring finger on the palmer side .
employee was moving a piece of polypipe with hisfoot when he stood up and his foot slipped , causing the right ankle to twist .
ee was disconnecting an air hose from a portable air compressor . he thought he had bled the pressure off the hose , but when he broke the connection at the compressor , hydrate and liquor blew o ut onto his face and upper body . the burn to both eyes resulted in use of rx medication and a patch to his right eye , which resulted in temporary restrictions being issued .
employee was washing down a concrete slab with water hose and slipped on hose falling on the left side breaking his fumor bone . at first he just thought it was bruised . however , per company policy , he was taken to the medical facility for follow up , where he was exmanined and had x-rays determining the extent of the injury would need surgery .
ee prying up a track `` bridle bar '' with a ar , felt pain in lower back .
ee was pulling miner cable when he felt a sharp pain in lower back .
in the c right panel in # 15,16,17 crosscuts in # the # 6 entry we had a roof fall . the 100 f fall is approx 8-10'high . the fall has now joined 15 thru 17 crosscuts and entry . the fall was cribb ed and made safe . the fall area has been dangered off .
a tresspasser ( non-company employee ) came on to the edge of the quarry property and committed suicide . the tresspasser was on the edge of the property adjacent to a public road ( quarry road ) .
two ees were attempting to fix a broken anchor cable when the boat flat bottom capsized and threw them into the river . neither were wear life jackets . other was able to hold on to some tanks t hat were int he boat and get himself to the shore . ee was last seen trying to swim to shore . ee was found around 7 pm 6-27-00 about 1 1/2 miles
ee has had tingling and numbness over approx 3 months . has been getting progressively worse . also some burning sensation .
ee was on ladder preparing to hook chains on large hopper to move it to another location , when he leaned over to pick up chains the ladder slipped out on the bottom and ee fell to the ground o n left elbow and left ankle . he sustained left elbow dislocation and sprained left ankle .
ee was helping another employee lift a plate compactor over a concrete form when he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . he was sent to the doctor who diagnosed him with a back strain and released him to work with restrictions .
ee was unloading belt structure out of a scoop bucket which was positioned between the cable car & the belt line . ee stepped between the bucket and the car . the scoop operator didn't see him s tanding there and reversed the scoop which caught his knee .
while mixing reagent ee became aware of burning sensation to r wrist . half dollar size second degree chemical burn to right inner wrist .
ee was changing flushing head on the cannon jumbo drill . he then unscrewed the drill steel and tried to beat the retainer ring to get it loose . he pulled the hoses using his left arm against the slide , which wasn't a good location . he let go of the hoses and noticed his left arm was bleeding but he felt no pain . he had a laceration which required 3 sutures to the left forearm .
after removing jaw die , ee was carrying it across parking lot to shop when he slipped on ice and fell - strained wrist .
a roof fall occured in the # 1 heading on the 8 west section between the # 0 and # 1 crosscuts . the fall was 18 feet wide by 30 feet long .
ee had completed fueling his dozer . ee was attempting to reel the fuel hose back on the reel . it was dark so the ee was trying to feel the button . he reached passed the reel start button , when his arm hit the button . his right finger was pinched by the gear . ee received stichs in the fingertip and returned to work .
when the storm moved in the area was cleared andat 4:20 lightening struck the bench that was ready to be detonated . the lightening set off 11 holes prematurely .
slipped under quarry truck when fueling . crauledout and cut fingers on metal .
ee was prying a large rock when bar slipped & hetried to step back & hung up heel & fell back ontailbone & left wrist . he fell 18 '' to 24 ''
the ee was helping to remove spillage from loading hopper when he caught his rt.index finger between a guard & a section chain . the ee sustained a laceration on his finger that required six stitches
employee was helping load a stablizer bar for a 1500 rock truck onto the bumper of the truck , employee got his thumb between the bumper and the bar , resulting in a laceration to the thumb on right hand . wound required sutures .
during an examination of our redundant phone line a roof fall was found in the primary escape way , m4 mains , xc 64 , entry # 6. no miners were injured , ventilation was not affected , and no miners were trapped due to this roof fall .
injured was crawling the jackline when he hit his head on a shield .
ee was bolting top when a rock fell , mashing and cutting his left ring finger .
ee was lifting jack for bolting machine .
while installing fence wire to the roof in the outby entry , ee lowered the t-bar on the bolter . the fence caught the pad of the t-bar . the ee tried to push the pad away from the fence when the pad came down and mashed his finger between the pad and the t-bar . this resulted in 7 stitches . ee was wearing gloves .
ee was pulling a tub of oil from under a loader , the row rod pulled loose and he fell backward landing on his wrist .
ee was transporting pallets into pack shed with forklift , when wind blew material off pallets into eyes .
when getting into service truck , ee reached for the grab rail to pull himself into the truck . when he did he felt a sharp tear like pain in his right shoulder . ee did not mention this incident until a few days later when he sought medical attention .
ee diagnosed with occupational carpal tunnel on 7/30/2018 . treatment/surgery is pending at this time .
supervisor tried to use 12 gauge shotgun to disloge a plug in t air duct on preheater tower . he fired gun @ point blank range @ the plug . the slug shattered & small pieces of lead hit him on r ight thumb & forearm . he was sent to er for treatment . they cleaned & dressed the wounds - there were no sutures .
employee was standing on a 8 ' step ladder , hitting on side of chute with sledge hammer . one of the legs of the ladder split causing ladder & employee to fall . seen doctor 10/28/01 x-rayed frac ture of wrist .
while using a utility knife to tryand cut open a lid on a bucket the knife slipped striking the employee's hand resulting in a laceration .
ee had finished a belt splice & was carrying an aluminum belt clamp back to the mantrip when he stepped in a hole & sprained his ankle .
employee notified safety of worsening pain in left shoulder . ee had surgery on 10/25/16 and the following noted in the operative report received on 1/3/17 : partial thickness tearing of the anterior distal supraspinatus , glenoid joint anterosuperior synovitis , rotator cuff partial thickness tear , ac joint arthrosis , synovitis and hypertrophy .
ee was closing a valve on cement line and felt a pull in his chest .
ee was taking off a 1 1/2 ton come-a-long when the chain failed . the chain hit the ee under the chin causing his jaws to clamp shut chipping his teeth .
ee driving euclid r60 , bringing sand to asphalt plant . after dumping , he heard a noise coming from left , rear tire area . he exited cab and saw a bulge forming in tire , turned to get away when tire burst . was 10 to 15 feet away when tire burst forcing him to the ground breaking lower left leg . another employee in area when tire blew suffered a ruptured eardrum .
ee was flipping a tread of stone when it came down on his fingers .
employee picked up a nail board from the mantrip , when the board turned , twisting employee's right hand/wrist . on work restrictions for 1 week .
a piece of slab end weighing about 75 # was sitting on a set of rolers about 42 '' high . ee picked up the piece and put it on a pallet . as he bent over , he felt pain in his back . he continued to work the rest of the day . the next day ee reported the accident and reported off work .
while performing his regular duty of inspecting rail car doors , ee used an unorthodox and unsafe procedure to conduct his task . he stated that while working in the dark , he had placed his flas h light in his mouth to hold it while he inspected the car doors . he then said he slipped and fell , causing the flashlight to hit the car , damaging his teeth and injuring his shoulder as he a
miners were working in the mine when one of the itx gas detectors went into alarm with 2ppm so2 . not knowing the source the mine was evacuated as a precautionary measure and msha notified . subsequent checks with a dragger hand pump and other investigation we determined that it was a false reading related to itx so2 calibration .
installing bit sleeve on a continous miner with a two pound hammer when a sliver of metal broke off of the sleeve , going through mechanics glove and cutting knuckle of left index finger . e 5 stitches were required to close the wound . he was released and returned to work the next day
ee was carrying an electrical disconnect up the stairs , slipped on a frosty step and put his knee in an awkward position .
ee slipped on floor while lacing raise . strained right shoulder .
ee was roof bolting when a piece of rock measuring 1 '' x 1'x 1'dislodged from roof striking ee on his rt.knee . ee continued working until 10/24/03 at which time ee started missing work .
individual was retrieving downhole delays from daybox when a gust of wind blew the daybox door closed on persons finger . individual was seen by medical professionals , in the emergency room , at douglas hospital and received 5 stitches to the middle finger of his left hand .
employee was walking on a lowboy loading ramp and slipped , falling onto the ramp . employee put his arm out to stop his fall and strained his shoulder . placed on restricted duty 1-25-11 per dr .
( fdf ) francis drilling fluids driver raised the safe rack to close ee's lids due to the way ee was lined up . ee got back on ee's truck to close ee's lids and fell to the ground .
roof fall found on 4/17/06 at 8:00 am . fall occurred between 4/15/06 and 4/17/06 . roof fall was in # 4 entry near spad # 80. it was approx . 55 ft. long x 20 ft. wide x 5 ft. thick . roof fall was approx . 8500 ft. away from working face . area was developed in 1978 and supported with 48 in . resin bolts . area was breakered off and dangered off .
2 experienced & skilled maint specialists were removing a stationary seal plate from a rotary dryer . 1 man freed the plate from its retaining bolt it rotated on its pivot & caught the left h and of the other man beweeen seal plates the plate then came into brief contact with the rotating dryer futher injuring his hand resulting inmultiple fractures & lacerations no damage or im
ee alleges that after dumping material from his truck on the leach pad , he lowered the truck bed and when the bed came into contact with the truck frame , the ee felt pain in his lower back .
ee was changing out an old screen cloth and was moving the tension bar from the old screen . ee was getting help from another ee . the first ee was pulling on the tension bar to the right while the 2nd ee hit the bar with a lump hammer dislodging it from the screen frame , pinching 1st ee's left thumb between the bar and the frame .
a roof fall measuring 60 ' long 18 ' wide 6 ' thick was discovered in the return entry spad 21542. fall was 11,800 ' from the active section in an area developed 02/97 with 5 ' resin bolts . neither ventilation nor the passage of men was affected , no injuries or equipment damage occurred from the fall . the perimeter of the fall was re supported with timbers and barricaded .
employee was pinning top in the face area when he caught his hand between drill steel and canopybruising his roght hand .
ee was drilling bolt hole-head on pinner stopped up dropped head reached over to check suction on head . drill steel fell out of hole , striking him on finger . went to dr on 6/21/07-ret 'd 6/22/07 .
ee was cutting plastic glue bucket while doing so the belt knife slipped crossing his left hand cutting it . gloves were worn at the time of the accident .
at approximately 5:55 am , it was found that the uninterruptible power supply ( ups ) on our # 1 secondary escape shaft was not working causing communication issues . it took approximately 9 hours for us to identify the cause of the issues and return the hoist to normal operation .
after attaching the `` d '' ring to the top of the skid steer , employee stepped off of the bucket and twisted his right ankle .
iw was scraping bed of truck when a chunk of drycon fell from top of the bed striking her in the elbow .
roof fall occurred out by face app 1200 ft on intake hallway , cause is believed to be of material failure .
a unplanned roof fall occurred in the 1st panel in the # 7 entry at spad 1686 in the return air course . fall is approx . 5,700 ' from nearest active section . fall will not be rehab . passage of person and ventilation was not affected . fall meas . 160'x20'x4 ' area was initially supported with 5 ' torque tension roof bolts . federal and state agencies were notified immediately .
ee was searching for a tool prior to shift in the locker . the ee went to store the tool bag back in the locker and as ee was putting the tool bag back in the locker ee felt a pop in the lower back . ee was issued restrictions .
ee was cutting steel with a torch when hot slag fell into ear canal .
four employees were attaching a jack hammer attachment to a brokk machine . as the employees started to lift the attachment to connect it onto the brokk machine , one of the employees felt a pop in his right shoulder . the employee was taken to st. elizabeth hospital . he was seen by dr. and was diagnosed with a strained right shoulder .
ee took off sanblasting helmet to check area that had been blasted when trigger on blaster hose accidentally got hit causing blaster to start which cause blasting media to hit ee on left sid e of face causing skn abrasion .
changing primary fuel filter on cat 980f . employee descended ladder and lost grip/fell . employee landed on left hip/buttock . nurseline called and advised self-care with ice/ibuprofen for pain/swelling . case handled as first aid until employee requested follow-up care 10/14/2013 . x-ray and catscan were negative , but doctor put employee off work 7 days .
employee was splitting stone with a 6 pound trimmer when he hit his left thumb on mistake . ee suffered a fracture on the tip of left thumb .
employee was working in finish mill building when ee started feeling dizzy . ee walked outside to get some fresh air . ee sat down to rest and tried to stand up ee realized ee was too dizzy , nauseated , and could not see very well . ee then laid down on the walk way until help could arrive and went to er . note : employee did state at beginning of shift that ee was not feeling well
ee was replacing the grating on the northwest trailer pad launder . he had one foot in the launder & the one foot on the pad . when he pulled a grate into place he felt a pop in his lower back .
the dragline operator sustained a sprain to the left ankle while exiting the dragline . the injured miner was stepping off the ladder onto the dragline shoe and rolled ankle when ee stepped on an object on the shoe .
maintenance employees removing the right rear leaf spring from a lube truck . spring had been unbolted and was being lifted out by 3 employees . the employee at the edge of the truck was told to let go . the spring rolled on its side , pinching another employees small finger causing a small cut requiring two stiches .
injury was attaching a hitch to a getman tractor for a rock duster . he was holding the hitch up while putting the pin in the hole . he dropped the pin in and let go of the coupling mashing his finger under the pin when the coupling fell in place .
report late due to no contractor id # . employee contacted 4160v bus bar . employee mistakenly dissconnected wrong cut out switch on power pole . employee trying to change out cable to 4160v motor when contact was made . employee slightly burned on right hand & thigh . taken to hospital , he was treated & released . after discussion with msha & receiving contractor # report submitted .
employee was installing the christmas star and the wrench slipped and hit ee on the forehead causing a cut .
ee was loosing bolt on kiln feed pump . another ee was using pry bar to separate the runner ; the pry bar slipped pinching rt pinky finger between pulley and belt .
ee had been cutting a suspension pit . was wearing shield , debris build up on top of hat , when he lifted shield , debris fell into his eye . ee did not seek medical attention until 12-01-2003 .
ee cut thumb w/ knife while cutting rubber belt sheet .
a customers truck stalled & ee jumped out of the loader & ran under the crusher to get a chain to pull the truck out of the way . he raised up too soon under the crusher & hit his head & neck , knocking him flat . he received a 3/4 '' cut on the top/back of his head .
at approximately 10:15am it was discovered that the 3 mile air shaft emergency stationary hoist guide rails were damaged . the damaged to the guide rails was caused by ground hooving .
third shift crew was replacing a bad pump located in the creek on the surface . the crew foreman strained his back and later sought medical attention . he was given medications and taken off work . he missed 3 days work during the following week . he rtw on 9/19/11 and has missed no more work . the safety department learned of this accident on 9/19/11 and began investigating .
ee was mounting a cutter motor on a continuous miner . ee lost balance while stepping off on an 18 '' high rail causing ee to fall backward . a pry bar ee was using struck ee in the right side as ee fell causing a 1 '' laceration .
ee was operating bolt machine while putting the last roll in the # 4 heading when a piece of rock fell from the t-bar mashing his right hand on the drill pot . the rock measured 3 ' long x 10 '' wide and 8 '' thick .
emp was working on the scalping screen on tower # 1. ee was grinding the buildup off the screen . later discovered that something was in left eye which progressively became more annoying . ee contacted superintendent and was told to go to the clinic for medical care . foreign body was found in left cornea and referred to an ophthalmologist for removal and cleaning .
roof failure occurred in no . 8 entry of 1st main sw at xc 11 no injuries , damage to ventilation or controls , or impedment to travel in aircourseoccurred . the fall is 55 ' long and 19 ; wide . hei ght can not be determined .
ee was tending miner cable in the # 1 entry of 11th west , when a piece of the rib was dislodged and struck the ee on the right side of his body and knocked him into the shuttle car with the left side of his body .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2nd northeast parallel in the # 2 entry xc-18 , spad # 12+60 . the fall was width-19.5ft , height-8ft , and length 24ft .
ee was beating a pin in place with a sledge hammer and started feeling pain in his back .
location : no.4 main ; entry : no.5 belt ; spad no . :1599 ; distance from active face : 2100ft . airway : neutral ; size : l-60ft. , w-20ft , h-6ft . ; roof support : 48 '' resin ; 6 cribs installed prior to fall ; strata : shale , no coal rider seam present ; all entrances are breakered off ; area will be rehabilitated .
employee's hand was pinched between the handle and door latch as he went through a mandoor .
after medical exam . miner has sufficient degree of pneumoconioses ( black lung ) notification letter from msha .
ee had reported for work at the lab anbd when he stepped out of his vehicle he turned his ankle .
the ee alledges that he was adjusting the belts of the stone mill , which are very heavy , and when he stood up he felt a strong pain in his lower back .
a rock fall occured at # 5 2nd east , crosscut between 2 and 3 entries , spad 13+22 . the fall is approximatley 30 ' long , 20 ' wide and 7 ' high .
ee was chipping scale off pump housing when a chip from the pump housing broke off and impacted subjects face directly below and to the left of his safety glasses , on his left cheek/eye area . the injury became medical treatment when the ee had the fb removed on 8/12/14
discovered a roof fall in # 6 entry in the 1st ne mains about one break inby spad h334 it measured 35'lx18'wx7'thick . no equipment or personnelinvolved . this fall is in a primary escapeway which has temporily been rerooted fall will be cleaned up fall reported to msha at 9am on 9/14/00
finished mining & was moving miner . some rock had fallen on miner at intersecton . stopped to remove rock . pulled rock approx 4'x 3'x 18 '' thick when rock slide off of head & pinched finger on c able hook .
the individual was dismounting the dragline when he slipped on the handrail and bent his finger back . when he was injured the dr. tried to keep his finger imobile so surgery would not be requi red , however it did not get better so on a scheduled day off he had surgery on the finger .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 4 entry , between # 8 and # 9 crosscuts . this was located along the 5th south travelway . the roof fall was 30'long , 18.5'wide and 5'high . the fall will be cleaned up and the area will be re-supported . initially the area was bolted with 4 ' fully grouted roof bolts and showed no indication of roof failure . the roof material consisted of sandy ,
ee was putting transmission mounts in on a coal hauler . a hydraulic line was not tied off or drained . hydraulic oil poured out on to him & when he pushed the hose away , he hit his elbow on a transmission mount . ee did not seek medical attention until 2-26-02 , at which time the dr. restricted ee's work . ee was diagnosed with bursitis.this is a worker's comp . claim .
ee stated as he was exiting the 463 bob cat , he felt a pain in his thoracic area of his back . he stated that he took some advil to relieve the pain , but after 2 hrs he states that it is feeling worse . he aslo stated that when he was moving scrap vessel chain around yesterday ( 10/30/08 ) , he may have aggravated his back .
while he was fabricating a curved steel shaft water ring and moving it around , the steel shiftedand pulled his left arm down , twisting it .
on 24 august 2009 employee was walking across parking lot , stepped on a rock and twisted his knee . his doctor scheduled orthoscopic surgery for 24 sept , and returned him to full duty . he received orthoscopic surgery on 24 sept where small pieces of cartilage were removed . he returned to duty on his next scheduled work day .
after returning from break , the 3 employees proceeded to climb back up the structure . the employees had on all required safety equipment . once the employees reached about the 15 foot level , the complete rebar structure failed and fell over onto the north side . jobsite was scheduled to shut down on 12/22/11 for christmas break and reopened on 01/03/12 .
employee pushed stone slab onto loader forks and thought it was stable . after ee turned to look back at the saw , ee placed hand on the next slab and the previous slab ( on the loader forks ) came sliding off and crushed ee's pinky finger between the two slabs .
ee works at greens creek mine and was helping our mill maintenance replace the shafts and paddles in our nikko mixer when he was moving a paddle and shaft into position when he felt a pain in his lower back and left leg .
mine examiner was making an examination of the byrd mains left return & observed an unplanned roof fall at an intersection 1 cross cut inby survey station # 1346. travel or ventilation in this area has not been compromised .
while ee was driving haul truck into the pit area , he went over highwall in planned drilling area , causing truck to flip over . driver had a minor cut to his left leg , sustained when he unbuck led seatbelt while hanging upside down in cab , and fell onto dash area .
a miner was taking a water pump off the boom of the jumbo . the cable used to suspend the pump had a sliver . when the miner was handling the cable to remove the pump , the sliver of cable inadvertently went through his glove which resulted in a puncture to his right thumb . this incident was not reported until ( 08/18/14 ) 10 days later ; resulted in an infection requiring rx medication .
while climbing down from the r-85 euclid haul truck , victim stepped on uneven ground and severly sprained his ankle .
ee stepping down , left foot stayed in place and body did not pivot resulting in a sprain of the left knee . conservative first aid treatment until surgery for meniscus on 8/11/16 .
employee was shifting hanging spider line hoses in the pack house . ee was moving the hose from one connection point to the next , approximately 18 '' away . the employee lost grip while pulling the hose causing the hose to pinch left pinky finger . employee received 6 stitches
ee states that while breaking down a powershot tube to be recharge , she said that after she thought that the pressure had been bled off the tube , she proceeded to remove the end of the tube . b ecause the tube was still under pressure , the end flew off of the tube after it was unscrewed and struck her on the right of her ribs causing a contusion .
ee is an electrician & had cut a large piece of metal for a repair job & while lifting the cut piece , it slipped out of his hand striking him in chest .
ee worked normal shift as a clay feed attendant & went home . he noticed swelling around his right elbow . the doctor said his swelling is from bursitis from an old injury 4/25/00 .
a rock was stuck in the grid of our hopper . ee tried to break it with sledge hammer . did not work . he then tried pulling on rock to push off to one side . felt something snap in shoulder and forearm area .
ee picked up repair parts to carry to vendor truck , stepped back against a supply cart and lost balance falling against a portable stairway structure . pinched r little finger between part and stair frame -- laceration required stitches .
after the employee finished grinding , when he lifted his faceshield up small particles of metal shavings fell off of face shield and in between his safety glasses with one of them getting in his right eye .
ee was taking roof off a portable plant when he slipped and fell . the fall caused a minor bruise and cut . the incident went unreported until the cut got infected . the ee was treated with an tibiotic for infection .
a rock fell from between bolts and scraped down injured's back . examined by er and no treatment given . injured was unable to rtw next scheduled shift due to er dr.'s refusal to grant full release to rtw and injured being unable to see family physician ( who granted full release to rtw ) until 2 days later .
ee was riding in a dielsel tractor . as the tractor trammed down the supply road , it hit some holes in the roadway . the ee's right hip started to hurt . he went to the chiropractor on 1/2/04 for an adjustment .
employee was in the process of constructing a rock box , when he was lifting a piece of metal , he felt pain in his rt . shoulder .
reportable only - employee was helping move steel sheets to a pallet when ee caught the end of finger between a steel sheet causing fracture to tip of finger .
ee was burned on back of left hand from a grounded cable that flashed up near him .
ee was cleaning top lights on 785-c rock truck . he started back down ladder and lost footing . hefell to the ground injuring lower back .
ee entered the uniform locker area located in the employee break room . he dropped his dirty uniforms into the collection receptacle and as he turned to walk away , he tripped over a mounted floor bench . as he fell to the floor , he extended his arms to catch himself and fell onto his elbows . after the fall , the employee's left shoulder was in pain and he had limited mobility .
employee unloading 1200 lb bags of aluminum from trailer . it had tipped over in truck which made it hard to unload . employee used a pallet jack to move bags . the employee reported hurting shoulder , on way home was sent to clinic , then occupational doctor following day received full release . went back on 03/14/2016 mri and therapy scheduled . became lost time on 3/15/2016
employee was loosening a jam nut on a rotex arm when the jam nut unexpectedly broke free causing the employees hand to slam forward into the rotex arm .
ee lifted belt structure and strained upper back and neck . lost time began : 10/24/02 .
miner was operating lhd on first shift . as he turned into an intersection to approach the muck pile he ran over a large piece of salt on the ground . the jolt of hitting the large chunk caused him to bounce out of his seat and contact the fire suppression monitor box located above his head . the monitoring box cut his scalp about 4 '' long and 1/4 '' deep . he received 10 stitches .
ee lifted stone and was placing it on pallet . when he twisted , he felt pain in his back ( back strain ) .
while the employee was descending a 16 ' aluminum ladder , the legs of the ladder slipped , causing the ee to wrap his arm around a ladder rung pinching his arm between the ladder & the wall the ladder was leaning against .
ee was shoveling rocks off of the crusher and appears to have sprained or strained his back .
while steam cleaning a radiator on a d-8 dozer the employee slipped on the wet track and fell onto the stailizer bar . he thought he just bruised his ribs and continued to work until seeking treatment on 07/13/2009 . an x-ray revealed a small fracture to one of his ribs .
employee cut left knuckle on electric metabo saw while cutting notches on idler roller . employee received four stitches .
ee was under equipment installing wiring to a new tranmsission that was being installed . he turned & felt a twinngein his lower back
ee jammed his head into a scoop canopy while hauling block . he had run over a track rail when this occurred .
ee was riding in golf cart in early morning and did not see rope barrier . golf cart went throughand under rope barrier causing it to cut and bruise left eye and cheek requiring 6 stitches .
while scaling a pillar with a manual scaling bar , employee barred down a piece of material onto his rt . foot . he refused medical attn . until 10/19/04 .
lifting screens from squeeze sreen , he strained his lower back . ( x-ray only , restrictions , anti-inflammatory muscle relaxant )
opr jumped off excavater truck instead of using hand rails to get down . ee sprained his right ankle .
when cleaning the first floor of the prep plant with a water hose she felt pain and numbness in both wrists . also after completing the task she had a hard time gripping with both hands . medical information from workers comp . does not support employee's claim . the company does not believe it to be work related . under protest and ordered by msha the company is completing a report .
ee stated that he was inthe process of putting the side doors back onto the dozer engine compartmant . as he was setting the doors onto the push beam ont he dozer , the doors folded together cat hcing his off little finger in the doors causing a laceration to his finger no lost time but reportable due to requring sutures .
e-2 headgate at 59 & 59 08. roof fall above the anchorage which blocked the passage of men . it did not fall but id did sit down on the headgate .
ee was standing at an electrical switch panel waiting to fill the water truck he was assigned to operate . according to his statement , a snake came out of the bushes with its mouth opened and he thought it was going to bite him . he jumped back and fell on some gravels resulting in bruising to his left shoulder , ribs and lower back .
a roof fall was discovered in the # 7 entry on # 2 section near spad 731. the fall measured approximately 40ft long by 20ft wide by 5ft high . no injuries resulted from this fall .
employee was climbing a ladder when working on a weighfeeder and strained his back .
ee was in the process of splicing a miner cable . ee was cutting shielding off the cable when knife slipped off the cable striking ee on the right thigh . this action caused a laceration on leg that required four stiches to repair .
engine hood of 900 komatsu loader fell on employees head .
ee and a coworker were air arching on the main frame liner inside of the cone crusher . they had their backs to each other when the uv rays we think reflected off the inside of ee's welding hood and burned his eyes .
employee states he was positioning forks of mini trac when another employee picked up the end and caught his finger between the mast and the fork .
employee was walking to his work area , when a stone fell from roof striking him on the head and neck , fracturing 2 two vertibrae .
employee was recovering equipment doors and frames . he had knocked the blocks from around the sides and the capping material from the top . as he pushed the top frame over , a straight leg support for the header sprang or kicked up , striking the employee in the eye . recieved 3 stitches above the right eye .
ee was cleaning a truck windshield and he fell he turned his ankle when he landed . the laceration was at the concrte plant .
an unintentional roof fall occurred iat the millennium portal main west belt line-entry # 3 at 4217 ' west . the fall was approx . 18 ' long , approx . 18 ' wide and approx . 8-10 ' thick . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 20q .
ee alleges an incident/injury on 3/31807 . there are no known witnesses . the company became knowledgeable on 7/26/07 , when he called and reported the incident . the company does not ackowledge this claim .
65 ' long x 20 ' wide x 10 ' high , fall in # 5 entry on # 1 section near spad no . 8079 .
ee was rehanging a tail pully guard . earlier in year repairs had been made to guard . the piece of screen flopped down , catching his thumb between the screen and framework .
ee cleaning out east end of # 5 cooling tower screw . he had the bar in chute material dropped down , hit end of the bar causing the end of the bar outside of the chute to slip out of his hands , striking him in the right cheek .
employee participated in annual hearing test on 1/22/13 . he reported on 1/31/13 that he has experienced ringing in his ears since the 1/22 hearing test . employee is being evaluated by a wc medical professional .
employee was changing out metal blades on a belt scraper at the 26w belt drive transfer . the screwdriver he was using to pry loose the metal blades slipped and he lacerated his thumb on the m etal blades . he was not wearing gloves as trained to do . there was no impairment to mining operation or damage to equipment . injury didn't involve compliance , job skills , proficiency , etc .
was helping make splice when knife slipped and cut rt . index finger
resealing a 240 volt battery when an arc from the battery strap grounded to the frame burning both hands , wearing ppe , individual was trained on job task .
ee was loading an oxygen bottle into a pickup in which the bed was wet from rain . his foot slipped , causing him to lose his balance . he twisted his back as the oxygen bottle fell .
ee was preparing to work on a shaker when he slipped and fell from it falling about 8 feet onto the concrete floor . the fall broke a bone in his elbow . surgery was required . healing time is unknown , but it will be several weeks .
ee was pulling pins from beams at the highwall miner . in the process , his right arm received a laceration from a metal burr on the beam . he was taken by ambulance to logan regional medical center where he received stitches .
a rockburst occurred in the 5500-31e stope at approx . 10:50 pm . the burst followed a planned de stress round shot with he normal stope round . the area affected was approx . 20 to 30 feet from t he face int he sill along both the hanging and foot walls .
inspector walked over to railroad spur to talk to kwt employee . after finishing the conversation , the inspector turned to walk away and fell before resuming the inspection . inspector fell on the left wrist causing the injury .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the intersection of the south west mains in the # 7 entry , # 25 xc , 15+85 . the cause of the roof fall was laminated and unconsolidated shale above the anchorage point . the area had 6 ' fully grouted rebar roof bolts for roof support .
ee was stripping off a outer jacket on a piece of cable . while holding the cable in his left hand with the end of the cable pointing toward his torsco , he was cutting away from his body while cutting the blade slipped out of the outer layerof insulation and punctured his left hand between thumb and pointer finger . sutures were required .
ee was carrying a box of heavy tools 80 lbs down a steep , rocky slope when his foot slipped causing him to fall and the toolbox fell on his hand .
inspecting iron ore tank , removed door of discharge chute . placed door back on brackets , then reached down to retrieve keeper bar . not aware door was not fully hooked on upper framework . door came loose and fell approx 2 ft and struck right hand . second finger , one stitch ; third finger end bone broken , five stitches .
ee alleges he bent down to install a bottom belt roller and his left knee locked up .
ee was shoveling iron are into the inspection door at the top of the burn . he had a full shovel and twisted his body causing strain to his back .
employee was lifting a 100 pound bag of material off of a pallet , when he felt a pain in his left shoulder , which subsided and he finished his shift . three weeks after the initial injury , the employee did not have any pain , but his shoulder was popping . an mri revealed a tear of the rotator cuff in his left shoulder .
ee was walking and stepped on a rock and heard a pop in right knee . pain was minimal ee did not seek medical attention until 7/19/17 . ee treated as fa and released back to work with no restrictions or pain meds . ee went back to dr on 8/24/17 and placed on modified duty . ee stated knee still pops and pain is still lingering .
ee alleges that while he was working in # 4 precipitator building , he stepped in hot cement dust burning both of his feet .
the inj was driving a 150ton cat trk & hit a pothole in the road . this caused his back to hurt slightly the next am his back hurt more & hew was sent to dr. the injury became lost time on 3/16/00
ee was banding a boxcar with another co-worker , using utility knife to cut fiber bands . injured stepped back into path of knife arc swing of co-worker .
south 1 , 11 block 10 entry , 4-way intersection , spad 648. support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , 12 ft cable bolts , pans . 20 ft wide x 20 ft long x 8ft high . fall dangeged off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee was holding shuttle car cable up , to let scoop clean feeder . shuttle car operator started shuttle car pulling cable down into employee hurting back and rt shoulder . employee worked 2- 05 , 2-06 , 2-07 went to dr became lta starting 2-10 .
removing gear box from concrete sand stacker when ee got hand caught between the gear box and adjacent handrail causing lacerations to three fingers and a fracture in first joint of index finger on left hand
ignition - occurred due to the connector insert breaking between the two drill steels used to drill an 8 ' deep hole for 8 ' long cable bolt . when the two drill steels were removed from hole methane being liberated ignited . ignition lasted appox . 10-15 seconds and was extinguished with one fire extinguisher .
while mine fire boss examiner was traveling the weekly intake travelway with msha inspector a roof fall was discovered in # 6 entry at 70 breakacross 5 north belt . fall measured approximately 4.5'high , 20'wide and 40'long . area is under 103 k order and was dangered off . ventilation and travel is not impeded .
employee was drilling hole for roof bolt he put bolt wrench to push steel daper in hole used his hand to steady wrench . glove got caught on wrench . breaking his arm .
a roof fall was discovered in the # 2 entry on the track of abandoned 001 section . the fall did not affect ventilation , miners nor equipment . the fall was apx . 30 feet long x 25 feet wide x 10 feet high . the fall will not be cleaned up and will be left .
ee stepped into scoop bucket -- operator pulled out -- causing me to slip & twist back .
ee was dismounting the d6m cat dozer when his foot slipped and went between the blade push arm assembly and the track adjustment housing . he fell backwards with his foot caught , causing injury .
ee was repairing front plant feeder in tunnel . the come-along failed and feeder dropped on right hand and bruised left thumb .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred on unit 4 in # 5 entry at 20+46 ' . the fall mesured 60 ' long , 19 ' wide , 9 ' high . no one was injured , passage of men or ventilation was not affected . fall w as due to adverse roof conditions above 6 ' double lock bolt .
employee was welding cracks on a 8750 revolving frame in inclement weather , after the shift was over and he had left the mine site . an hour and half after the shift ended he reported to a shop supervisor that he had a foreign object in his ( l ) eye .
on 6/29/11 while closing caps on the kiln trunion rolls employee felt back pain . on 7-19-11 working on the four hole wear plate at the roller mill , the pain in his lower back became worse . on 7/25/11 , physician states that ee has damage to his si joint , recommended restricted duty , physical therapy and medication .
the employee was helping make a belt splice at # 1 belt drive between the take-up and drive . he & other ee were hammering in splice nails . during the swing the hammer caught an over hanging metal fire supression line . when the hammer caught the line he strained his left shoulder due to the abrupt stop of his swing . the area was confined & had limited space to make a splice .
as the 12cm12 joy miner was cutting bottom in the # 4 entry on # 4 section , as ignition occurred that lasted between 1 - 2 minutes . the flame was extinguished and no one was injured and no prope rty damage was incurred .
employee received a laceration on ee right index finger when it was smashed while lifting a heavy object on the 9l plow head gate .
a roof fall was discovered at break 14 , 1-north , inby spad 205. the fall is approximately 20 ' x 20 ' 8 ' long . all approaches to fall is breakered off .
employee was walking and transitioned from a paved surface to an unpaved surface and stepped into a hole injuring lower leg .
ee fell and cut his hand on his palm just below left thumb . ee slipped and fell against a truck .
ee was riding on mantrip down intake airway , when a small particle of coal fell from top & got inhis right eye . he went to med cent & was sent to dr. & was treated . washed eye out & checked 2 small scratches . released for work 10-9-01 .
the operator was inspecting a pneumatic bulk truck when he slipped and bruised his right ankle . no doctor visit required = he said he was ok and has done the same job until 6/27/2012 when he requested a doc visit because the ankle was still a little sore . when the incident occurred he was wearing proper ppe .
ee was reaching for a tool and felt a twinge in his back .
7 mains 2 , 4 entry , 33 block , 4-way , mmu 001 . 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 8 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall , clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site .
ee states that while removing a guard from the chain drive of d3-be1 elevator , he lifted the of the guard and his finger got caught on something causing a laceration to his lefty index finger . the ee was not wearing his gloves .
was replacing a gurard on a crusher . a bracket slipped down and struck him on the face . reportable because of chipped tooth .
the crew was attempting to belt up and as they were pulling the lo-lo structure tight with the continuous miner , the pin in the lo-lo that the chain was fastened to broke and struck injured i n the chest above the right nipple .
a roof fall was found in the main north return , ( work out area ) . fall was appr 80 ' long x 18 ' wide x 0 to 48 '' high .
ee was placing primers in bore holes when he became hot and dizzy and suffered weakness .
ee had been working with a heavy shovel in the truck bed when the stick part of the shovel came apart and resulted in his slipping and falling on his right hand .
ee was assigned to clean settler underflow pump # 2 impeller . the tool bit became stuck in the impeller vein and while pulling the chipper tool to remove the bit , the employee strained his elbo w. this injury was treated as a first aid initially , and ee received conservative treatment for the strain . dec 11th , the company dr added restrictions to treatment calling for reclassificati
employee got his finger caught between metal cable and shieve wheel on belt take up . cause of injury involved awareness and miner proficiency and two skills . accident didn't involve protecti ve devices or protective cutting ; it was not involving any defective equipment or mining system .
while working with a sling the sling slip & hit the ee on the nose
employee was attempting to mount an ingersol dml drill by using the cab-side steps . while climbing the steps , his foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground landing on his feet . the impact caused pain in his lower back .
while walking along the longwall face and using the handrail , a rock fell from between the sheilds striking him on the left ring finger . resulting in amputation just below left ring finger , finger nail .
lifting 25 lb . boxes on a cart & elbow felt like it pulled out of the socket . post accident drug test results were negative .
ee reported that he had gotten dirt in right eye and tried to rinse eye out . on 4-21-00 he reported that his eye was not any better and wanted to see dr. diagnosed as welding flash ( ultraviolet keratitis ) ee does not recall looking at flash of welders outside of maintenance bldg .
ee was putting his sideboards on the trailer & the wind got at the sideboard & twisted his lt. wrist .
while restoring old mine works for advance mining , ee was lifting on a rail to remove a chain and pulled a back muscle .
employee was setting up a poly pipe in a fusing machine and one of the clamps struck his right hand during the process resulting in a contusion . he was restricted to `` no use of his righr hand '' for two days .
tryed to move a rock using his hands when another rock fell against his finger .
riding on mantrip going to the working section and the mantrip hit a bump in the road causing the employee to hit his head on the mine roof . this was not reported to management until 8-4-08 .
ee was shoveling out loader bucket and experienced pain in his right forearm & shoulder .
while walking around the cat tl943 telehandler with intentions to enter the operator's cab , employee slipped on ice causing a fall . the employees right ankle and foot twisted and landed underneath his body . this caused pain and soreness to employees right ankle area . employee was taken to local hospital for observation and diagnosed with a fracture to the right ankle .
ee pinched rt thumb during the removal of a portion of an air slide - resulting in sutures and fracture to rt thumb .
ee stated a roof bolt broke while being installed into the roof , causing roof bolt plate to come off . struck ee on his right lower chin , causing laceration requiring 16 stitches . started missing time 5/31/07-ret 'd 6/4/07 .
ee and coworker placed piece of angle iron ( 4x4x3/8 '' x 20 ' long ) on a fab table . the piece of angle slid off the table and the ee strained his right arm trying to stop it . *ee reported injury p romptly but was not interested in medical attention until 1-21-02 .
while running jitter bug machine , injured felt pain in left arm . * 5 lb limit w/left hand *splint given
employee and a co-worker were installing a larger mandoor in a stopping . he was using a sledge hammer to make the opening larger . he worked the remainder of the year 2000 and went off work 1-5 -01 falling back to the 6-3-00 incident .
old south mains # 11 heading 7-8 block mmu 006 7 ft high by 15 ft wide by 100 ft long . type of support : 6 ft resin bolts , 6 '' by 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof support s set around fall .
ee had just cut the bolts off holding a metal structure to the old starter building . ee pulled on the structure to free it when slag & rust flew into his face . pieces rolled down his face & lo dged into the corner of his eye .
employees were stripping concrete forms from an elevated platform . as individual was prying a form loose , a 2nd came loose and fell a couple feet , striking another empl0yee in the back of his head - beneath the ratchet of his hard hat . employee was given 1st aid then taken to hospital for observation - bleeding had stopped . dr decided to apply 2-3 staples .
ee was working on a pump when he struck his head on an overhead pipe . he lost his balance and fell , striking his left leg against a flange and his right elbow against a pipe . on 07/23/07 , ee was placed on severe restricted duty by his treating physician , no use of right arm . not able to perform his regular duties , ee was placed out of the plant . first lw day will be 07/24/07 .
ee repairing dragline bucket using wire grinder when metal flake entered left eye .
while swinging snout on loadout the guard around sprocket caught on the chain drive , when it came loose , it slapped him on the side of face
ee claims that while attempting to open a primary refuse elevator drain with a metal rod he felt a pain in his back .
ee was making a splice in the section conveyor belt . while cutting the belt with utility knife , the knife slipped and cut ee's left pinky finger . required 5 stitches to close wound . ee returned to work on next scheduled shift , but a follow up visit with surgeon on 9/15/2015 revealed tendons were cut and required surgery to correct .
ee was standing on a catwalk removing the protective covering to the man basket when he lost his balance and fell approximately 6 feet to the ground . he landed on his right foot which resulted in a fracture of the ankle .
as ee was operating the tailgate drum of the shields , he was standing at shield # 97 when a small rock fell from between shields 96-97 and struck him in the right ear . 4 stitches were required .
employee reported he strained his back while climbing/ascending ladder into operator's cab of komatsu pc-650 excavator .
ee slipped off the hood at the front of the dozer , possible because of morning dew . his feet went out from under him and he thinks he hit everything he possible could on the way down . he ended up curled under the dozer . he got up before anyone got to him and crawled out from underneath the dozer .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee .
two employees were riding a new lowering frame in the production shaft for inspection purposes . at about 250 ft down , electrical power went off due to a problem with the public supplier . power was off until about 9:20 am .
employee was trying to pry cattle panels off of forks on pettibone . another employee lifted the basket and employee got his middle finger of right hand caught between basket and mining bar . employee was taken to company doctor and treated for lacerations/swelling .
stacking brattice blosk , felt sharp pain in lower back possible pulled muscle .
opening bayhouse sliding doors , twisted right knee .
a roof fall occurred in the 3 right 3 northeast nbelt and track entry . the fall measured 72 ' long ; 24'-25 ' wide , and 12'-18 ' high .
ee was walking down a stairway and ee slipped on the bottom stair tread which was bent resulting in back discomfort . the ee was evaluated by a physician on 11-6-13 and rtw with restrictions .
ee was pulling a pan out from underneath rail car and felt strain in back . did not seek medical treatment until 2/3/10 . ee was given orders for physical therapy and placed on restricted duty .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at about 5:30 am in the intersection of the # 3 entry and into the right crosscut at survey station no . 1311. the fall was approximately 4 ft high x 19 ft wide x 60 ft long .
ee was using torch to cut weld on truck bed . metal object hit ee on left foot . began losing time 10/25/00 .
employee states that ee was hammering on a tail bearing to remove and replace . as ee was hammering , a piece of metal broke off and flew under glasses and in to eye .
truck dumped in primary plant , returning to pit to be loaded . traveled to right side of haul road about 1/2 way down . went 75 yards to bottom of grade . jumped a stone pile at intersection to r ight side turned into berm . cab layed at 45 degree angle on left side of cab . miner had lacerations on scalp from hitting cab interior & complained that both shoulders hurt . paramedics said h
roof fall ( 7000-1-009-03 ) : mw # 1 belt - between head & x-cut # 1. dimensions : h:5'-6 ' , w:12 ' , l : 40 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale , laminations , and plant fossils were present . roof supports : 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was bolting in panel sb08 in rm 3 left , he had just finished a row of bolts and was positioning the bolter for the first bolt of the next row when a slab fell out of the back and stru ck him on the rt forearm left shoulder and he said his lower back was sore .
ee was crawling into manlift , put one leg into lift while pushing to get in twisted his knee .
on 4/21 , while performing welding tasks under a drill in windy conditions , debris got into employees right eye . employee reported discomfort on 4/22 and was seen by a doctor , but no debris was found . on 4/24 , employee reported continued discomfort . employee was taken to the emergency room again . a small piece of metal was found on the corneal limbus . metal was removed .
employee was standing waiting for water truck to fill . he stated that he turned to walk back to get in the truck , rotating on his left leg when he heard the knee pop . he reported the injury to his foreman shortly after and continued to operate the truck until taken to receive medical care . incident resulted in an msha reportable injury .
ee was removing a rock from the feeder . when he picked the rock up it flipped over & caught his hand causing the injury .
vice grip pliers was holding piece of flat plate steel temporarily . employee was leaning on the piece of steel when he removed the vice grip pliers , causing ee to lose his balance & fall .
employee stepped on a miner bit which caused him to twist his left knee , went to medexpress at lewisburg and was diagnosed with an internal derangement of knee , will be sent to a specialist and have an mri .
ee stated he was assisting coworkers in setting timbers . when helping to lift one of the timbers , he experiencewd pain in the right side of the abdomen . he underwent hernia surgery in march 20 00 and returned to work january 15 , 2001. the ee has a history of abdominal pain when exerting himself according to records . therefore , the experience with abdomen pain is not the result of a
when ee was stepping down from a lhd right foot got hung up in the step causing ee to step down awkwardly onto left leg . ee felt something pop in the calf of left leg .
ee was operating the continuous miner when draw rock fell out between the bolts striking his left shoulder and hand .
the employee was using a ratchet to pull in a conveyor chain on a shuttle car . the chain fouled , so the employee attempted to release the chain ratchet . when ee reversed the ratchet , the handle turned loose and the employee suddenly stepped back twisting ankle . ee has been allowed to work light duty .
the ee was working on a vent bag when the piece of rope he was using gave way and he lost his alance and fell backward . he put his foot out to catch himself and tripped on a vent bag that was rolled up behind him . he struck the back of his head on a metal box . he was transported to e.r . for evaluation and treatment .
he was helping another employee move a headgate drive cover when the other employee's hand slipped dropping the cover onto the injured employee's right middle and ring fingers causing fractures to both fingers .
during the course of sandblasting concave linersemployee was accidentally hit the some sandblasting material when the man using the sandblaster stumbled & directed the spray towards his right arm .
ee was polishing a rock . he advised me that the rock spun out of his hand , mashing his right ring finger and pinkie . when asked why this wasn't reported immediately , he advised me he didn't think it was all that serious and that i had left early on friday . i had him fill out an accident report and sent him to the hospital .
mantrip was struck in belt entry near feeder . as coal hauler approached feeder to discharge load of coal , hauler operator did not see mantrip . tailgate of hauler made contact with mantrip causing injury to rt foot/toes when they were caught between two pieces of equipment . injured was a passenger in mantrip .
employee @ barmac crusher attempting to loosen screws . wrench slipped hurting left arm . employee has not missed work . today advised arm still hurts and has appointment with dr. today at 3:45 pm .
while hanging belt chairs using a 6 ' step ladder ee fell from about 3 steps up ladder when ladder started to turn over from being set on loose material .
ee states he was installing rib bolt in last rowof bolts in face of no.5 entry . a section of rib ( rock & coal ) measuring 65 '' long,13 '' wide & roughly 7 '' thick rolled & struck him on left upp er leg . the impact caused a bruise to the upper left leg
employee was pulling a piece of drawrock & cut his right palm ; the laceration required sutures .
injured was using a wash down hose to clean on and around the 3 east no.4 belt drive . after ee's work was completed ee was going to cut the wash down hose off . the injured slipped/fell while cutting the handle off on the hose . ee then inadvertently pressurized the hose . the hose came loose from ee's hands and struck ee in the left side of ee's forehead near hairline . caused cut .
ee alledges that he strained his back loading roof bolts from a scoop to the bolter . note : this accident is under protest and this report is for compliance reasons only . this was employee's la st shift .
ee was changing a water temp . senson on a 190 ton haultruck did not drain coolent to an acceptable level and burned two fingers on right hand removing sensor .
ee was putting bottle on rack & slipped in ice landing on right hip
employee was operating d-11 dozer in an area with some large boulders . he got on top of one of the boulders and it shifted and moved . the bulldozer slid about 6 ft to one side and when it stopped , it jerked employee to the side straining a muscle in his neck .
employee alleges he hurt hib back shoveling belt .
stepped on pallet top sheet which was slick and caused employee to fall . when ee fell ee tried to catch self , ee bent thumb backwards as ee fell .
employee who had been working in the shop the previous day , noticed pain in one eye that night . ee went to the clinic the next morning where a doctor removed a small particle ( unknown substance ) from left eye . employee had been wearing safety glasses while working in the shop .
3rd shift fireboss was doing preshift for sunday night when fall was found in belt entry # 3 entry across from spad # 1451 fall was 4 ' to 6 ' thick , 30-40'longl fall was outby the section .
cutting piece of belt hanging fron conveyor belt and cut left hand .
a roof fall was discovered in the 4wa panel # 2 entry between xc-7 & 8 and spad # 4+48 & 5+12 in the # 9 seam . the approximate size of the fall is length-15ft , width-18ft and height-6ft .
empoyees left boot became stuck in the mud in 12 i. as he attempted to free himself he felt pain in his left knee and hip . lost time began 7/23/2009 .
ee was using an airlance that is reinforced by rebar on both sides of lance . he was using this lance to poke holes in the dirt buildup on boiler . as he was performing this task he felt a poppi ng in his back . midsection . the area he was working on was a little lower than his knees .
replacing a water flushing head on longhole drill and dropped head on right index finger . fractured tip of finger , medical treatment .
2/26 a ground fall occurred at 23e 300 a3e . 5 ' bolts of ground support system came out in the fall , 8 ' bolts of support system were still intact . a rehab plan was developed of 12 ' bolts & shotcrete . rehab was started , ground started unraveling , releasing the 8 ' bolts , 12 ' bolts held . 2/27 management inspected area & called to hotline even though conditions didn't meet criteria .
employee was roofbolting in the # 3 rt crosscut . employee was pushing up a roof bolt when the bolt wrench broke . the bolt wrench hit the employee on the left side of his face cutting a place about 1 '' inch long in his upper lip . ( required 4 stitches ) .
employee was placing 20 lb . wooden blocks next to the railroad tracks in an awkward position with his hands extended out in front of him to re-rail the front trucks of the locomotive . he overextended and when he stood up felt pain in his abdomen . the employee is on restricted work duty .
ee was hanging miner cable and felt a sharp pain in the groin area
ee was operating the lube/fuel truck , and in the process of servicing a komatsu 475 dozer . he was on the cab deck level and attempting to dismount to turn on a pump when he slipped from the de ck or track area , and fell to the ground . the fall caused a laterial tibial plateau fracture to the right leg .
employee was stepping down into drag cable box , missed second step and fell , landing on rt . ankle .
employee was crossing the coupling of 2 coupled rail cars , his hardhat came off his head and he hit his head on a step on the railcar that was there to access the hand wheel brake .
employee stated that he was loading the miner with roof bolts and plates . while his co-worker was throwing him the bundles of plates one of thebundles struck his left ring finger .
the employee was placing a beltscale in the conveyor with another employee . while lifting a metal roller it turned over pinching his right ring finger causing an open wound .
employee stepped off of the ladders of a front-end loader and felt pain in right hip similar to a cramp . pain did not susbside as a cramp would . extreme pain after shift was reported to supervisor and medical attention was approved . no problems were observed with the ladder , seat or loader .
ee states he was removing universal off impact wrench . he held universal in palm of hand since it was stuck on . he pressed trigger and universal turned & cut through glove , causing laceration to palm of hand .
a roof fall was discovered on 8/30/02 at the 17th x-cut on the submain # 1 belt . the fall was 6 to 10 feet thick , 20 feet wide and 20 feet long . the area had been supported with 5 foot glue bol ts and 8 foot cable bolts .
the mine encountered an unintentional roof fall on 1 wa , xc # 29 , between entries # 4 and 5. the fall measured 20'l x 18'w x 4 ' thick . the area was developed 3/1997 , supported with 4 ' glue bolts with straps . this fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was operating a komatsu wheel loader when cab began to fill with smoke . ee dismounted and noticed a fire had started in back of loader.he immediately called the fire department , which responded and put out the fire . no one was injured and no property damage , other than to loader . cause appears to be electrical in nature .
employee was installing some hoses on the mast of a drill , when they got stuck ee pried on the hoses with a small pry bar to move them and felt pain in ee's right shoulder .
fall of roof in inactive area of mine . 18'x18'x30 '' at spad 1rt956 . no one injured . rerouted alternate lifeline . dangered off , timbered off all approaches .
smoke was reported in the developed underground space at 3:21am . the fire department responded but was unable to locate the source , although it was thought to be in the developed underground area . no miners were working underground . mine management and buckley powder discovered the burned truck at approximately 8:30am and msha was notified at 8:36am .
operating water truck ; complained of numbness inright wrist & hand getting progressively worse .
while drilling a hole for a roof bolt , the drill steel hit ee in mouth . this cut his lip and chipped his teeth . stitches fixed his lip and a dentist took care of his teeth . missed one day of work . back to full duty with no problems .
ee was attempting to replace brushes in a motor as he was removing the saftey cover the cover or bolt pinched his finger against the motor .
ee said that after going thru a mandoor he struck his head against another block wall . cause of injury was awareness and not creating height on the old wall . compliance with rule/regs not a fa cetor , protective equip not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equip/systems not a factor .
repetetive cumulative trauma . right shoulder from daily checking blast hole depths , by bobbing a 100 ' weighted tape up & down in the blast hole . caused shoulder soreness .
employee was checking his battery , and as he wasreaching to close the compartment door , the battery exploded .
victim was removing high voltage disconnects when he came in contact with high voltage power line . he was transported to logan medical center , air lifted to cabell huntington hospital . left arm amputated below shoulder & right leg amputated above knee . not chargeable per logan wv field office . mine was abandoned 7/25/05 .
pulling cables from dock with a forklift . tie off rope snagged and came loose . cables came forward abruptly and rope tripped worker and he fell . went to doctor to get checked out - no injury f ound .
ee was picking up wheel chokes when he slipped . he reached out with his lt. arm and caused a stress fracture to his lt. shoulder .
ee was lifting a box of resin glue off roof bolter and felt pain in lower back .
employee was walking along side a mantrip parked in the track switch leading into the underground motor barn . he stepped in a hole and fell against the mantrip .
two employees were replacing the end plate of w-13 conveyor discharge chute by lifting it into place . while putting plate into place , they lost conrol of the plate and it fell striking injured on the right index finger causing laceration . ( plate wears approximately 150 lbs . )
lift cylinder on 773b rock truck fell apx 1 foot and pinned left hand to tire .
escape hoist in zone 2 was missing the tube block . so they downed the escape hoist at 4:00 p.m. and brought it back up at 5:00 p.m. that same night . no miners trapped or injuried .
hoisting incident : cowling portal elevator - on monday , 03/30/2007 at 08:55 am , the cowling portal elevator was taken out of service to shorten the length of the hoist rope . the elevator was back in service on monday , 03/30/2007 @ 01:30 pm . each underground employee was informed to use secondary escapeways . a hoistman was stationed at the hoist house for the entire shift .
employee stated that as he dismounted the mantrip he twisted his left knee .
a roof fall was discovered in the no . 5 intake entry near spad location 1685. the fall measured approximately 30 ' long x 20 ' wide and 5 ' thick . no injuries or damage to equipment resulted from this occurence .
ee stated he was in the process of hanging the nylon miner cable strap to the hook provided on the joy 12cm27 mining machine . he stated they were preparing to move the miner out of the no.2 ro om to a new location . when pulling on the strap that was attached to the miner cable he felt lower back pain . he was transported by ambulance to the er . note : medical received 1/24/00 .
employee states he was working on center main engine exhaust , wrench slipped and struck employeein face .
ee was taking off the 4 '' inspection cap of the hopper , lost control of the cap which fell onto the belt catching his hand between the hopper feeder and the belt .
during a routine inspection the governor for the # 6 elevator was found to be defective . the elevtor was down from 12:55 p.m. to replace the governor .
while unloading roughbacks from the narrow belt saw , ee slipped in the slurry from the sawing of the stone , twisting his back , he was sent to the dunn walk i clinic about 10am and was off the rest of the day per doug king , supervisor
the offside roof bolter operator on 3 section in # 2 entry was struck in the back of the right leg by a piece of rock while roof bolting . the operator was transported to raleigh general hospital where x-rays showed a broken fibula , broken pinky toe , and cracked ankle . operators return to work is unknown at this time . operator worked for lightning contracting services msha id-8cv .
employee was in the process of installing a new 1 1/2 '' rock dust hose on the roofbolter . he stated his foot got tangled in the hose and as he turned he twisted his ankle .
injured was working on feeder pryed down on slate bar and slate bar slipped catching left pinkie finger between feeder flyght and slate bar causing a contusion .
employee was lining up a wear plate on a conveyor chute . as ee went to set it down , ee pinched right middle finger between the wear plate & inner lip of the chute . the employee sought treatment & was diagnosed with a fracture as well as a laceration in which ee received stitches .
employee was in the process of spotting a roof bolt with a fletcher bolter when he turned to see the location of the bolt and position the bolter . he then proceeded to the front of the bolter and ran into the atrs striking his eye .
ee was putting up rib bolt ; suction hose got damaged ; took off glove reached down with his left hand to fix hose and a piece of metal poked thru top of left thumb .
ee was operating a scoop when a piece of waterline struck ee on the left side of the head . the water line was lying by the coal rib when the scoop struck it
ee shut down the generator for the end of the shift . as he walked out of the generator trailer , he stepped on to the platform at the top of the stairs . the platform was covered with about 1 '' of snow . as ee stepped on the solid metal section of the platform , his feet went out from under him and he fell down , struck his arm when he landed and then he slid down the stairs .
while walking to a work station the ee stappen on uneven ground and tunnel his left ankle . this was recocurrenace of ahn neutral from 1999 .
employee was helping a second employee lift a filter press leave into a box when he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . the employee was treated at a local clinic and retrurned to work with r estrictions .
the employee was guiding a bell housing down off the metcalf secondary crusher overhead crane when a clevis pin fell 45 ft. , hitting the employee on the right hand pinky finger .
employee was driving a 190 ton end dump . he was on the fill dumping his load . he said that the truck bed slamed back and jerking his neck . he was dizzy , vision was blured , and light headed .
the ee was in the process of climbing upon the d9 cat and as he lifted his leg up he felt his knee pop .
ee was hauling mega-blocks to the section with a scoop . he had exited the scoop & was walking back to check for clearance when he stepped on uneven ground & in mud & twisted his left ankle . this injury did not invole any aspect of compliance with rules or regulations , job skills or attitude . amendment : returned to dr 2/20/06-has recurring pain . back on restricted duty .
after installing the suction nipple on the new suction plate to the pump , ee bent over with impact wrench to tighten bolts an experienced pain in his lower back . ee reported incident on 11/26 /01 .
employee was carrying a 5 gallon oil can up # 1 entry to the f25 longwall face thru a water hole measuring 30'l x 5'w x 4 '' d when stepped on a rock twisting left knee . lta on 7/8/16 .
while on a platform approx . 12-15 ' high with handrails all around , ee was burning duct work . when duct was cut loose the platform fell in and eewent with it .
while standing on the second step of a 6 ft step ladder , the employee fell backwards and sprained his left wrist while trying to catch himself . the employee did not hit the ground .
employee was standing on front platform helping a mechanic bolt a light bracket on the lift cylinder of a d11 bulldozer after they had replaced hyd . hoses . the employee lost balance and handhold causing ee to fall . employee received a cut on the head that required stitches .
a roof fall occurred in the main entries west , xut 7 , # 1 entry , l 20 ' x w 20 ' x t 10 ' . the roof was bolted with 6 ' point anchor pins .
employee was washing around the `` c '' belt braking resistors . he stated that he tripped on a wash down hose and his arm slid under the resistor and came in contact with power , receiving electrical burns to his left hand .
a hole blew out during a blast , a small rock ricoched from the ground or a nearby trailor and struck ee on the head . first aid was administered at the mine site . that night he went to a doctor for a tetnus shot and the doctor closed the laceration with a butterfly closurer .
ee had surgery for carpal tunnel syndrome on may 31 , 2000 .
ee was working on 777 haul truck . he was going under to check on a broken cooling line . he stepped on the steamer line that another ee was using at the time . the line rolled causing him to twi st his knee . the result was a medial meniscal tear . first day missed was 07-11-2002. not reportable until then .
ee was operating a forklift on the surface , ee went to adjust the left fork and it came completey off hitting top of ee's right foot . ee was seen by er and released to co. dr. after x-rays it was revealed a possible fracture/contusion , referred to ortho dr. ee released to sedentary work only .
ee was walking down 2th floor steps and slipped and fell backward and hit his head on hand rail , hurting head and back .
sliding a 4'x4'x1/4 '' sheet of decking steel onto the forks of a forklift . sheets were frozen together . materials slipped out of his hands he lost footing , twisted back and felt pain in lower b ack .
while changing ear muffs the broken wire cut across the left index finger , eight stiches were required .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the intake airway , # 6 entry , at spad # 5107. the fall measured 12 ' long , 18 ' wide , and 5 ' high . dangered-off and re-routed intake escapeway .
ee stepped out of cab of vehicle and his foot slipped out from under him causing ee to fall backwards onto the flatbed of the truck jamming his left shoulder . the ee did not report this incide nt to employer until 1/5/04 & has not missed anydays from work or had restricted duty . employer made aware on 2/3/04 that ee is seeing a chiropractor , making this reportable . chiro is 1st med
employee was machining on a lathe when a metal string wrapped around the part . as lathe came to a stop , employee reached with a pair of pliers to cut the string , but the string cut the employee . ee received 3 sutures and 3 days restrictions .
ee was working on conveyor and had to lift the tail wheel onto welding truck . he had another helping him lift the approx . 100 # tail drum . while lifting he felt something give in his lower back . diagnosed with a lower back strain .
a roof fall occurred in the 9th east , # 3 entry , at # 23 crosscut . the fall was 20 ' long . 25 ' wide & 8 ' high . it didn't affect ventillation , travelor cause damage to equipment or injuries . the ar ea was bolted with 8 ' point anchor bolts . the reson for delay in reporting was that the examinerwas supposed to be walking # 1 entry and just found out he was walking # 3 .
while an ee was using a hammer & chisel to break chain apart another ee was observing . a small sliver of metal hit that ee in left wrist .
employee stated that while removing a top roller and structure from the longwall belt he felt pain in his left elbow . employee continued to work and did not begin to miss work until 9/18/2015 when he was diagnosed with a sprain/strain type injury to his elbow .
employee was tightening chain rachet when hook came loose and struck the left side of his face requiring stitches .
laborer was assigned to operate a skid steer loader located near the mine service building . entry into the operator's cab is via the bucket . she slipped on snow/ice in the bucket and twisted h er left knee . she began losing time on 8-30-00 for surgical repair .
roof fall occurred 1 x-cut inby suveryor station # 9191 roof was support with 42 '' resin bolts , fall measured 13 ' wide 10 ' thick , 30 ' long .
employee was attempting to install a bent roof bolt into the roof while holding onto it . the bolt spun around hitting his wrist as he accidently pushed on the rotation . cause of this injury was an unsafe act . rules/reg . was a factor , protective equip . not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equip/system a factor .
another tech and myself started to disassemble the accumulator and failed to bleed off the nitrogen before starting disassembly . i was holding the ratchet on the end cap while ee ran the ratchet . when the end cap came to the end of its threads the pressure that was still in the accumulator blew the end cap into my hand .
ee was taking up cable on bolter and didn't cut reel off fast enough . the cable struck ee on thert . arm , pulling shoulder up , popping shoulder .
ee stepped off of a material supply trailer that is 16 '' high and stepped on a lump of coal resulting in a twisted ankle .
employee was dismounting komatsu haul trk in wet muddy conditions when foot slipped off access ladder . as a result a fall insued , and the right arm was lacerated on the toe plate of access platform . injury required sutures to close the wound .
ee was pushing wheelbarrow through mud and it tipped over . ee went to brace themselves and landed on their right thumb . fractured right thumb . ee released to restricted duty which the site could accommodate .
ee was pulling a rock out of tailpiece and strained his lower stomach area .
ee was preparing to service a miner when rock fell from the roof and struck him on the head and right side of his back . lost time injury .
employee was riding in a track mounted mantrip when the operator stopped suddenly . when the mantrip stopped , it was struck by a locomotive . this resulted in the injured having pain in his back & neck .
bent over to pick up mop pail . lifting bucket felt `` pop '' in low back . pain felt in left leg downto heel . doctor visit 9/5/01 physical therapy prescribed .
ee was cleaning take off duct . it was full of build up so it blew out and covered him on his gloves & coat . the material got in his glove & burned his right hand .
ee was marking spacing for dirll holes when he removed his hard hat to adjust his earmuffs . a rock then fell from the highwall & struck his head .
employee states that he was moving rocks in preparation to bolt a cut when he felt a pain in his right groin . he worked his regular job until the scheduled miner's vacation ( june 29 to july 5 ) . employee was disabled by dr. bucci effective 7/6/09 for a right inguinal hernia .
ee bent over to pick up 50 lb bag and experienced discomfort in lower back . went to see outside medical provider and was given multiple doses of prescription medication .
a steel plate tipped over and pinched the ee s 4th finger between the plate and the concrete floor as he was working on the plate . the resulting avulsion required sutures .
while lifting a rock off of bull shaker . ee strained his left shoulder .
employee was changing a roller on a conveyor . he was havnig trouble getting a nut off of a bolt which held the roller . when the nut cam loose , the roller came loose and employee tried to hold it from falling .
received a cwp diagnosis for ee on 1/27/2015 . he was termed on 9/21/2012 due to reduction in force .
employee was checking oil on the end dump while standing on the platform . once finished , the employee stepped backwards unaware of ee's placement , causing ee to fall 4 ft. backwards from the end dump .
roof bolter was installing the inside pin in the # 10 entry on the # 1 unit ( mmu 002 ) . a piece of draw rock measuring 2.75 ' x 2.75 ' x 2 '' thick fell from between the rib pin and the rib making contact with the roof bolter's left foot bottom . he received a contusion and sprain as a result .
two ee's were cleaning and oiling bearing housing with bearing inside from vibrating screen . bearing housing was set up on its side and oil caused bearing housing to slip and fall over . bearing housing caught end of thumb on right hand of ee , crushed/cut end of thumb on right hand .
ee was using an impact wrench to remove a rusted bolt when it jerked causing him to smash his finger .
ee was using a pry bar to remove large rock from ( 9fa01 ) pan feeder to crusher . the rock shifted striking the pry bar he was using , smashing his left thumb against the side of ( 9fa01 ) pan feed er .
roof fall in the # 3 entry , crosscut # 13 , 13th right section . roof fall was in the intersection , dimensions were approximately 42 x 27 x 17 feet high . msha hotline was called .
ee stated he was operating battery scoop hauling mud-muck and loose rock that had been piled up in xc between supply road and belt entries . while backing the scoop a large piece of rock came in operators compartment struck the ee on his left shoulder causing contusion . ee started missing work on 5/27/11 .
employee states he was trying to drive out cut off bolts using ball ping hammer . does not know what caused injury but looked down and noticed blood on left lower arm . applied pressure and was brought to first aid . sent to new bern family practice . x-ray revealed foreign body in left forearm . employee was given prescription medication and 2 days restricted duty .
employee stated that at the end of the shift he staged the shuttle car up at the feeder and dismounted to walk to the mantrip . as he bent forward to walk , he felt pain in his back . this resulted in sprain .
the injured was using a bench press grinder to remove burrs from a 3 '' washer . the grinding wheelsnagged the washer and pinched his rt . thumb against the grinder rest .
ee was walking toward transportation and twisted r ankle resulting in a sprain
the ee was operating the shearer in the longwallsection . he was checking the cutting level of the drum when the face blew out and a piece of coal struck his bottom lip . he received 4 stitch es to close the laceration . returned to work hisnext scheduled shift on 1-28-02 .
ee stated that he picked the blower cable up with his left hand . when he did this he felt pain in his left arm . ( ee didn't start missing work until 3/17/06 . )
pittsburg breaks & clay vein
the injured ee was assisting making repairs to the a-1 jig elevator . after the shear pin was replaced , the workers stood in the clear ( 12 ' away ) . as the unit was jogged a piece hub broke off s triking him on the forehead .
burned skin left foot ee was pressure washing by an engine compartment when he sprayed his left foot puncturing thru his steel toed booyt
the hoist was shut down to replace a defective hoist brake valve . the mine evacuation started at 10:30 am & was complete at 10:40 pm . the valve was replaced , the hoist tested & miners return ed underground at 11:05 pm .
ee was marking the face in the underground mine . loose rock 2-3 ' up on the rib fell on his foot .
employee stated that he was carrying pin boards to the scoop when he stepped in a uneven place in the mine floor and fell on his knee . he continued to work for a couple hours and asked to be taken to med . services . he then was taken off by his family doctor .
one of our euclids had an exhaust leak & ee became ill after awhile . he claimed that the leak was present a couple of months ago & we made some adjustments . evidently that didn't eliminate the problem . light exposure evident to exhaust fumes .
employee experienced pain in lower back when ee was bending to remove a piece a metal from the mine floor . the operator received the results of an mri on 8/10/16 which noted ( 1 ) degenerative changed noted above at l3-l4 and l4-l5 . ( 2 ) degenerative facet disease .
ee was working in burner building area , removing welding leads . ee stepped back to turn , stepping down off ramp . he misjudged the edge and fell .
ee shoveling walkway of belt 12 conveyor . glasses got fogged due to humidity . ee laid glasses on belt tray . glove got close to pinch point of idler and belt . pulled ee's right arm in pinch poi nt . belt was moving slow , ee pulled stop cord tostop belt and pulled out arm .
employee was changing bits on the miner on mmu 001. a piece of metal chipped off and struck him in the left eye .
3 ee's were working on an elevated conveyor without fall protection . they were about 10.6 ' off the ground . ee lost his footing and fell over backwards . he landed on his head and rt . wrist . ee was taken to the hospital by a comp . truck . ee has a fractured neck & a broken right wrist .
driving too fast on a gravel road and slid into a ditch . five stitches above his rt . ear .
ee was operating shuttle car headed to the continuous miner when rib ( 2 ' x 3 ' ) rolled off hitting him in right arm and shoulder . injury resulted in application of splint to immobilize the injured area . this report is being generated under protest to terminate citation # 9006070 .
employee was replacing the conveyor motor guard , when the guard fell catching his right hand between the guard and rub rail on the contiuous miner , resulting in a fracture to his right ring finger .
ee has hearing loss under south dakota workman's comp . ee laid off due to mine closure .
a roof fall was found dec 10 , 2004 at 11:30 pm at survey station 29 and 99 entry # 2 , main south . fall was in a four way intersection that had been mined june 6th 2004 and supported with 8 ' full resin bolts . fall measured 15 ' long and 15 ' wide and 8 ' high . no injury or property damage resulted . fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
ee was positioning a metal cable chocker to freea dozer that was stuck . there was a sharp burr or wires sticking out from the cable which penetrated his overalls causing the laceration . he rec eived 3 sutures to close the wound and released to return to work .
a rock fell from the mine roof approx 35 ' inby survey station no 13356 as the 6-left crosscut was being mined on the 020-0 mmu , east section . the rock measured approx 4'6 '' to 5 ' high x 15'6 '' long x 5'6 '' wide . 6 ' roof bolts were being used as primary roof support in the no 6 entry . this report is being submitted to prevent any additional citations .
west mains 63 block # 5 heading intersection . 7 ' high x 20 ' wide x 25 ' long . area bolted with 6 ' resin bolts , 6 '' x16 '' plates , roof mats on operator side . posts set on 3 sides , cribs built on bel t heading side . area dangered off .
employee was unable to nip directly into power source due to the entry of heading . this led employee to pulling power cable by hand apprx . 150 ' down a 10 % grade . the employee was pulling enough cable out to complete task in thirds . while doing so the pulling , twisting , and walking resulted in muscle damage to lower back .
ee was drilling . he was holding 5the drill with his left hand & a board with his right . the bit broke & jumped over cutting his right forearm . no stitches -- received tetanus shot .
roof fall was approx 1280 ft from face of # 004 section in # 4 entry at spad # 26336. fall was approx 20 ' x 20'x 6 ' thick . fall was bolted with 5 ' fully grouted point anchor bolts . fall will n ot be cleaned up .
employee was turning water valves inside of dozer and caught his right thumb on a pulley causing a laceraion which required stitches .
employee was carrying a welding rod can and when lfited can slipped the open endof the can cut hand ( one end of can was open .
ee getting in position to cut belt , landed on a rock causing him to jerk knife back and away from belt , catching his left index finger . required nine stitches .
roof fall ( 7000-1-005-06 ) : location - old main b , # 7 entry , south of spad # 51614. dimensions - h:6-7 ' , w:19.5 ' , l : 35 ' . geology - soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in the roof . roof support - 6 ' instal bolts .
2 maintenance specialists were closing an inspection door on the firing hood of a rotary kiln . the door was difficult to close & the ee's had to bend over & lean against the door to get it to close . the ee strained his lower back while leaning against the door .
ee was stocking shelves in the warehouse and was lifting a box of parts when he felt a muscle pull in his stomach . later in the shift a knot appeared on stomach .
ee stated at ground elev . of raw mill he picked up a tripod to put on shoulder , when it was on shoulder , chain from tripod hit ee on the upper lip , cutting it .
employee was removing rock out or chute on the longwall belt when a piece of rock struck his left hand . this resulted in a laceration to his middle finger of his left hand .
while the bus was moving ee stood up to move her lunch box , she had one hand on the partition behind the driver and holding a cup in the other hand . the driver of the bus was making a stop when the brakes grabbed causing ee to fall forward striking a mirror bracket .
ee picked up jack and felt something pull in his groin area .
approximately 30 minutes after cutting the # 3 right x-cut thru into the # 4 entry ( @ # 25 xc at station spad 1 : +91 ) creating a three ( 3 ) way intersection , the intersection of # 4 entry fell in . the intersection was bolted with six ( 6 ) ft fully grouted roof bolts and less than 4 ft contours . no one was injured , no equipment was damaged .
roof fall was in the 3rd northwest butt room section in # 23 room 45 ' inby spad # 2082 the fall was approx . 55 ' l. in # 23 room and fell through x.c . 30'l . towards # 24 room 18 ' w. unknown h. area was bolted with 6 ' bolts and 8 ' cable with some 4 ' super twist outby fall area these were vertical joints and slips .
while lifting one end of water spray pump by the sand pipe , off the stud bolts another ee pried the other end off the stud bolts . the pump flipped over , and the stand pipe flange that i was li fting with smashed my finger against the near by water reservoir tank .
during the pre-shift examination a roof fall was discovered 2 cross cuts outby the face between # 5 and # 6 heading . no persons , equipment , nor ventilation was affected . the fall was app . 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . the fall was just outby spad 232. the fall will not be cleaned up at this time .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the # 5 entry one break inby the mine portal . the fall was approximately 20ft . wide x 7ft . thick x 20ft . long . the fall was reported immediately to msha and omsl .
ee was loading a bundle of crib blocks onto a scoop bucket from flat car . ee put left hand at the bottom of the bundle with fingers under it in order to position it in the scoop bucket . the scoop operator rammed the ejector out smashing fingers .
ee reported while using an impact gun to tighten nuts he felt a pain in his left arm below the elbow
ee reports exiting cab of cable truck when experienced right knee pain . ee claims traction soles on protective footwear may have caught on step tread causing stress to knee while turning . after conservative treatment , follow up evaluation was performed where restrictions were ordered on 2-2-17 .
saddle fell from packer , ee was attempting to put it back into position . while his finger was under the saddle , he hit the operation lever , causing the saddle to move catching his finger betwe en the saddle and the support bracket .
7 mains 2 , 7 entry , 26 block , mmu 002 . 25 ft wide x 25 ft long x 8 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , 12 ft cable bolts . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
employee was granted an award from wv worker's compensation division for occupational pneumoconiosis .
ee drives a truck at the slate dump . the jarring caused him to have an umbilical hernia . surgery was performed . outlook is good . will be off work for several weeks .
ee was carrying 50 # bag of rock dust through a mandoor when he felt pain in his lower back . did not begin missing work until 3/5/02 .
ee was walking to back hoe from mantrip ( bus ) at the start of shift , when he stepped into a ditch , falling and hitting his left shoulder . he was taken to hospital . he was examined by dr. and re stricted from work for two days .
examiner found a roof fall in an inactive area of the mine . a fall approximately 20'l x 20'w x 10 ' h was found in the # 3 entry at # 9 crosscut of the 8 haulage elevator mains . the fall is 11,838 feet from the nearest working section . the area was mined in january of 2003. no ventilation or travelway was disturbed .
ee ran off raod with excavator .
ee stopped his dozer to get it service . when he stepped off his right knee gave away . the next day he had trouble walking and went to dr. apparently strained .
ee was cleaning out hopper using a long rod thruthe top of hopper guard . material broke loose causing him to strike left hand on top of metal hopper guard .
employee retrieved pannivis filter cloth from storeroom . he removed the filter cloth ( 128lbs 90 '' x10 '' ) from storage rack , and carried it outside to truck . he stated that he felt pain in his lower back when he maneuvered filter cloth through door and upon putting it into the truck . employee did complete task of replacing filter cloth with assistance from 2nd operator .
employee was operating a skid loader with a modified bucket cleaning up around the plant . the extension on the bucket caught the ground and stopped the skid loader abruptly . the employee struck his head against the top of the cab causing a neck strain . ee went requested to see a doctor on 08/31/2006 . ee was directed to physical therapy on 09/25/2006 making the injury reportable .
injured was applying stonehand to the sangave 08 a pan when the wet product seepad through his clothes and on to his wrist causing irritation .
employee started to step off the tractor when heslipped on the rail and fell to the ground .
while operating the raymond forklift pinched his right little finger between the machine and a shelf causing a laceration that required sutures to close . he was treated and returned to unrestricted duty .
the ee was attempting to get out of a stalled manbus . the manbus was stuck by a motor . he reported his back began hurting because of the incident .
the employee was lifting a beam when ee claims to have felt pain in ee's left shoulder . the following were not a factor : rules , regs , mining equipment or systems , skills , proficiency , training and protective devices on equipment or clothing . attitude may have been a factor .
a roof fall occurred in no # 3 intersection . four to eight ft high , 20 ft wide , 30 ft in length . it was cribbed off .
truck was being loaded by loader.the 2nd bucket had a rock in it , which jarred the ee and broke the windshield.the ee told his supervisor he felt fine and took the truck to the shop for windshield replacement.when he bent over to pick up the chock , he stated his lower back began to hurt.he was taken to the clinic and taken off work several days . ongoing .
on 8-21-13 employee struck a piece of coal causing the steering wheel to spin straining his shoulder . on 8-26 he was seen by a dr and released for work . on 9-4 he was taken off work pending an mri . ee has previous neck and shoulder injuries and this case was under review by industrial to determine if it was a new or old injury . on 10-10 it was accepted as a new injury
sts - left ear
ee was roofbolting on a satellite continuous miner when he got his hand caught between the satellite atrs light bracket and a bundle of bolt plates his hand was resting on . resulted in crushed right ring finger .
ee was cleaning i beams when wind came up and blew dust behind safety glasses .
he was coming off the ladder of payloader when he stepped on a 6x6 '' block , slipped off & hurt his left ankle .
the injured was installing 6'long resin bolts during normal bolting operation . due to the 5 ' seam height the bolts have to been for installation . when the injured was in the process of stra ightening a bolt during installation he experienced pain in lt. shoulder . this is a reoccurence to a previous injury dated 9-6-01. the injured returned to work on 12-19-01 complaining of pain .
employee hit right shin on metal frame . resulting injury was about size of a pea . applied antibiotic and a bandage.on 1/24/10 while showering at home the scab fell off.the next morning area was very red and painful to touch . on 1/25/10 , he reported to work but pain became too much . went to er , serious infection ( cellulitis ) had set in . anitbiotics prescribed .
ee was unloading b-bond from flat car & loading it on scoop . he reached up w/right hand & his arm twisted . he heard a pop & felt a burning sensation .
employee was performing maintenance on a roof bolter . he removed the bottom pin from the atrs cylinder causing the bottom framing to fall on his left foot .
employee was riding in a diesel rubber tired mantrip . as the mantrip made a right hand turn the end of his right foot was momentarily caught between the rib and the canopy support post .
employee was in the man lift and was attempting to loop the welding lead over the kiln shell when the connector came loose stricking the employee in the mouth . sought medical treatment and received a couple stitches .
ee was sliding 2 x 4's under a rock in preparation to insert forks . the rock broke and smashed his left hand between it and the 2 x 4's . left hand was swollen and bruised . ee was unable to move left hand .
employee was using a hammer to wedges in at a new tunnel being built . ee missed the wedge and struck left thumb , resulting in swelling and tenderness .
ee , an engineer with refractamerica , was assising with the installation of a prototype kiln brick and a brick fell on his left pinky . he suffered a laceration that required 10 stitches and a cracked bone .
ee arrived at parking lot in personal vehicle reporting to work . he was walking from his vehicle to the bathhouse when he slipped and fell aggravating a previous existing lower back injury . ( w as continuing to take medicine ) . he continued to work and began missing work 3-14-2001 after dr. exam .
on april 19 , 01 dr diagnosed carpal tunnel syndrome . ee stated dr related the problem to repetitive trauma on the job .
while ee was re-entering the scoop , for balance , ee placed right hand /arm on the operator deck side board . ee's arm slipped , which caused ee to lose balance and strike mouth against the machine's bell resulting in a chipped tooth
while using hand held grinder in a confined area employee struck on right pointer finger with rotating wheel causing cut/abrasion to right finger . started/showing signs of infection . he went to dr 9-23-04 and recieved antibiotics .
he was installing a cutting edge on the jd loader # 4. the bucket was 18 '' high from the ground when the cutting edge fell onhim . he did not report the accident until 1300 because his right foot was hurting him .
a group of miners was changing the conveyor belt on number 4 belt line . a miner was injured when ee was struck on the left forearm by a belt grab . the belt grab broke left ulna bone .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee . employee was termed on 12/14/15 .
ee was trying to free a stuck drill steel using a pipe wrench & was struck on jaw .
17'wide x 20'long x 10'high . support : 6'3/4 '' resin bolts , wire screen , 12'cable bolts . s-west 2 , # 7 heading , # 5 block , spad # 6836. fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
roof fall found 10-23-03 # 9 entry 2 breaks inby spad # 5265. the fall measured 20 ft long , 20 ft wide and 6 ft thick .
while walking from drill platform to core samples , turned and felt pain in small of back . note : ee works four on four off , first missed shift 5-8-03 .
contractor was carrying pipe when ee's legs gave out . ee fell to knees and strained back . the pipe hit shoulder . lost time as 11/03/2016 . ee was a contractor working for david stanley consultants ( contractor id ybv )
no accident has occurred . ee says knee started hurting from crawling and being on knees while bolting . started swelling on this date .
employee strained his back while helping hang 4 '' waterline which had fallen onto the track . employee was treated at raleigh general hospital .
while trying to spread the sides of a 30 ' x 60 '' grizzley feeder with a hydraulic jack and pipe spreader , the jack and pipe sprung out towards ee striking him on the left jaw .
while ee was puting up the rails for the snake after a belt move he stepped in a hole and twisted his right knee . on 4/8/04 the ee was still experiencing pain . he was taken to seek medical attention , and was put on restricted duty until he receives a mri .
ee was loading a face with anfo and the pressure built up in the hose due to anfo not flowing properly . the hose came out of the hole and struck ee on the face causing a fracture to the nose
ee was climbing down from end dump # 1193 a 190 ton truck about 8 ft from the ground . he slipped or lost his grip on the hand rail and fell to the ground .
fish creek portal bottom , man was beside swimming pool used for discharged mine water . he had just finished installing bleeder valve on 4 '' discharge line . the 4 '' plastic pipe broke approximate ly 25 feet away . the 4 '' line shifted and struck his hand against pool wall .
ee was lifting a lid on a tanker truck when he felt a pull in his back . he did not report the incident as work related to the co until april 10 , 2002 .
haul truck driver was traveling up the exhaust to the grizzly . at the intersection at the west ramp ee hit some pot holes in the roadway causing ee's hardhat to fall off ee's head and bouncing ee's head off the roof of the haul truck . this resulted in the operator receiving a minor cut to ee's head .
employee was changing screen and did not time relase of his side . was struck on lower right arm by screen .
ee walked through a flooded area and realized later he had liquid on his foot . he receive treatment and returned to work . when the burn did not heal , he was placed on whirlpool treatment .
the ee was making up roof bolts when an undetected piece of draw rock fell , striking him on the left shoulder . the ee continued to work until 3-4-02 at which time he saw a medical specialist t hat placed him on restrictions at that time .
ee was hold bichromate plastic barrel liner in left hand while using utility knife to cut off tie wrap closure on bag . hand was in wrong position and knife cut left middle finger at joint closest to tip of finger , ee was taken to salem er where ee received 2 sutures
occured while clearing material from under the tailgate . tip of r index finger crushed . when material was cleared from area tailgate dropped and finger tip was crushed in latch resulted in a fracture to the r index finger tip with a laceration that required sutures
ee was carrying bundle of t boards down longwallface , bumped shield , strained right shoulder
employee was walking too close to chute gate when he stepped on a rock and bukled his foot . a fracture resulted making this a reportable injury .
ee was fire bossing # 2 head when he slipped and twisted left knee .
the injured tripped on the rough bottom in the # 1 recovery entry of 23 butt longwall section . the injured struck his face and left knee on the bottom . he suffered an abrasion to his nose and a meniscus tear of the left knee .
lifting 100 # bag from a pallet to put it on another pallet while bagging at a packing unit . ( ee was wearing a safety support belt . ) he said he felt a pain in his lower back .
while working on # 2 kiln tire , ee felt some metal flakes blow into his eye . foreign material ( steel ) removed from eye .
employee was adjusting the position of a tire/wheel assembly with boom hands during tire installation . the tire/wheel assembly was pressed against the rock bar on unit . as ee reached in to move the rock bar out of the way , the tire wheel assembly moved forward `` pinching '' his right middle finger between the boom hand and rock bar .
ee started to push drill steel up to drill hole and a piece of rock cut his left hand .
pulled muscle in shoulder while performing plant maintenance . after medical review , suggested that ee relax for a day or two .
employee stated was shoveling belt in sloppy conditions . as ee was dumping a shovel onto the belt , the mud adhered to the shovel causing it to contact the belt . when ee jerked the shovel back , ee felt a pain in lower left abdomen . ee exited mine and refused transportation . ee traveled to er and was referred to specialist . ee is off work for unspecified amount of time .
fixing a leak in the slick line at 23w # 1 around 6 block when the coupler failed , spraying the miner with glue compound being used to `` rock lock '' the tailgate . miner missed no work , but was prescribed antibiotic eye drops . no problems with mining methods , training , ppe or compliance issues .
ee works on belts . he was prying a rock out of a tail piece when the pry bar slipped causing him to jerk his back out . mri was done by doctor but no results yet .
ee was lifting belt to put on top structure when his foot slipped , causing him to injured his lower back .
roof fall in # 7 intake entry of spruce laurel mains , 3 breaks inby spad # 13367 , 25 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' thick .
a roof fall was found on preshift at about 7:00 am . it was about 7 ' thick , 70 ' long & 20 ' wide .
employee was roofbolting in the # 5 heading . he was moving bolter over to get next bolt when bolter slid over on his right foot , injuring his big toe .
the ee tripped & tried to catch himself with hisleft hand & broke his little finger
victim brought roof bolts to section to supply roof bolter . the bolter was parked in break . the injured , while attempting to tram the bolter out to the intersection for loading , was pinned against the rib by the bolter causing a fractureto right femur . he was transported to hospital where he underwent surgery to set his leg .
the hoist was lowering in the automatic mode . the cage had an empty car on it when a brake shoe set at approx . 50 feet above the coal seam . only one shoe caught , causing the cage to bend its g uide rollers .
contractor foreman was cutting a 10 '' cast iron ductile water pipe using a gas powered saw . at approx . 1:35 the non metallic saw blade suddenly broke and pieces flew out from under protective guard . ee was wearing a secured full face shield . however , pieces flew up under the shield causing a laceration to the right side of his face . sutures were required . rtw next day .
dozer operator came up from behind ee on pan , hit him too hard jarring his back and neck .
ee was installing a roofbolt , while pushing up on the bolt it spun and struck ee's hand .
ee opened a gate & was securing it to a t-post with the barbed wire provided on the t-post . as ee secured the gate with the wire , his finger was caught between the gate and a barb on the wire , cutting his finger . the laceration required 3 stitches . ( barbed wire has been removed to prevent any further occurrences . )
ee ran over a large rock in the roadway while running the scoop . he hit his head on the canopy and jammed his back when he came down on the seat .
ee was tensioning belts on a sump pump when the pump started and pinched his left thumb between the belt and the sheave wheel . the tip of the thumb was partially amputated .
employee stated he was resting with his foot up on the bumper of the scoop . a piece of roof rock fell and struck him on the head and knee , broke and fell to the ground . he continued to work and then had a mri done . his doctor took him off work on 12/16/2009 . mri showed a prior acl surgery and degeneration throughout the meniscus .
a roof fall measuring 45 ' by 18 ' by 7 ' occurred on the 7 rt section near spad no . 102 , no 2 entry to face . fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was overcome by carbon monoxide gas , man became light headed and nauseated , was taken to hospital and given oxygen . was able to return to work the same day but job foreman would not allow h im to .
employee was opening doors on a railcar and saw an extension cord hanging down . he went to move the cord . when he was moving the cord he was looking up . lime fell and covered the employee , lime got in his eye .
rockfall in # 1 entry of left side return one break inby spad 1176. rockfall was 24'l x 20'w . set brattice line over to establish return and cribbed and dangered area off .
while using a pry bar to place a belly pan back on d-11 dozer the bar slipped striking ee on left ear .
ee was helping install cribbs along the hazy section track . he was attempting to split a cribb block with an axe when either the axe glanced ormissed the cribb block & struck his right ankle on the inside next to the ankle bone .
two ( 2 ) commercial steel erectors-cse employees were stuck in the preheat tower elevator . reset did not release elevator to landing . elevator mechanic called in to lower elevator . employees were stuck in the elevator for 50 minutes . employees were in constant communication with the control roomduring the incident.at no time were they unaccounted for .
the incident occured on 3rd floor of pack house . ee was removing metal cover from a slide conveyor that was fixed by silicon . ee was prying off cover w/hammer & screwdriver . he was struck on t op of the nose w/cover when it was pried loose . ee needed 5 stitches but did not have any lost work days or restricted days as a result of injury .
employee was using diluted caustic solution to hosedown mud and scale unside of a tank . some of the caustic solution splashed back and got into the ee's left eye . ee was seen by a dr who presc ribed antibiotics to treat a small corneal abrasion . there was no lost time and only restricted duty .
ee was chipping slag from a weld . he had shaded safety glasses . he felt it was not light enough to use the shaded glasses . could not see with shaded glasses . removed glasses and continued to c hip slag . peice of weld flew into eye .
roof fall 100 ' 18'x 36 '' . 1 cross cut inby spad # 743 ont he track and belt entry # 4 entry . 42 '' resin bolts were being used .
a hoist drum bearing overheated and blew apart igniting grease that is used to lubricate the bearings & hoist gearing machine was in operation . 2-150 lb dry chemical & 12-20 lb dry chemical ext . were used to put out the fire . fire dept . was called but not needed . damage was limited to the bearing that failed . fire was put out in 35-40 minutes .
injured was removing the wear plate from the 15-61 sala sump pump . when he lifted the plat , he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
the ee was installing 6 '' air and water pipe . as he sligned the pipe to install a victaulic c9upling , he slipped and put out his hand to prevent a fall . his right hand was cut on a broken stran d of erxpanded metal used for ground support .
employee stepped out of cab onto a loose rock twisting his right leg and knee . he has been treated continously since date of injury and on 4-20-05 he began losing time from work with limited restrictions of no squatting , climbing and standing more than 15 minutes every hours .
drilling hole for resin bolt , ee smashed his middle finger and nail .
setting spads in last open cross cut # 2 entry , ram car came around corner and did not see rodman and bumped into him knocking him several feet . rodman stated that he could not hear ram car du e to other equipment running .
employee was bagging hydrate lime . a bag busted and the hydrated lime went into his eyes . the lime irratated his eyes .
while riding in a mantrip , the mantrip passed a supply car . ee had his foot on the side rail of the mantrip . when the mantrip passed the supply car , ee s foot was pinched between the mantrip v ehicle and the supply car .
employee was using a come-a-long to move an approximate 2,000 lb 5'x8 ' railroad street cart back onto tracks . employee felt a strain in lower back with pain .
a roof fall in the 3 west entry at xcut # 17 in # 7 entry measuring approx . 60 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' . the area had been mined in march 2002 & supported with 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts . the fall was cause d by an undetected slip .
ee pulled muscle in lower back while reportedly mounting front end loader properly .
employee was unhooking a wire pull rope from a dozer and felt pain in his lower back . 0n 7/17/00 he sought medical attention and is to begin therapy on 7/24/00 for this event . therefore it is a medical occurence only . he will not be away from work .
at approximately 5:50am , a roof fall was discovered on the 3 main belt line at between 17-18 crosscut . the fall measured 20 ' long x 14 ' wide x 4.5 ' high . the area was bolted with 6 ' super twist primary roof bolts and 12 ' pt cable bolts . the fall was cleaned up and steel beams set under fall area with cribs built on top of the steel beams .
the employee states that on dec 20 he was using a pipe wrench to open a valve . the cheater bar slipped causing him to injure himself . he did not report this . on jan 18 while pulling a bar valv e he reinjured his right scapula and reported the injury . he was given a trigger point injection and is receiving physical therapy .
employee was roofbolting when a roofbolt bent . it smashed his finger between the bolt and the mast .
ee was removing clinker from clinker cooler . the ee's gogles came apart causing loose dust to entrer r eye .
the injured came to the office on 6/21/05 and advised he was experiencing irritation in his left eye since approx . thursday june 16,2005 and not improving . injured was set up with an appointment to see eye dr , .
employee was standing on a coal ledge above the roof bolter holding a rib mesh . he lost control when the mesh broke free , ee fell approx 5 ' fromthe ledge and hit his head causing a laceation and became disoriented .
cutting the tape off of the cord that was keeping the cord rolled up to use it and when ee went to pull the tape off after it had been cut ee forgot to close the folding razor knife and stabbed self in the chest .
ee was checking voltage at the continuous miner cat head at the power center with a small volt meter and it blew up in his hands .
ee was reaching down underneath belt to lift roller out of hanger and while pulling on roller it did not move but shoulder was pulled . he has been treating with a physician but has continued to work per doctor's instructions . doctor decided to do surgery on 5/1/2007 to repair a torn rotator cuff .
ee stepped thru a brattice and a loose block fell out and struck ee on the right foot . ***ee did not start losing time until 9/24/02 due to foot being put in a cast***
a mine fire was discovered at or near the conveyor belt slope entry near the bottom of the slope . no one was underground when smoke was discovered coming from the mine . firefighting activities have begun and are continuing . the time of the accident is the approx . time smoke was discovered . no one was scheduled to work on this shift .
using relatively new wheelbarrow . when wheelbarrow filled up , ee picked up to dump contents . axel came out of clamping bracket , throwing weight and tilting wheelbarrow to left . belt missing on axel clamp .
ee performing maintenance on a drill . when exiting the drill , ee felt pain in knee stepping off the ladder . ee placed on restricted duty pending further testing .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west submain # 3 entry # 32 crosscut . the fall was 20'l x 20 ' w x 8'tall . the area was bolted with 6 ' to 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall did not affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
ee was climbing up right side of 930 cat to check brake fluid . while standing on right rear tire his footing slipped and all his body weight was on left shoulder . ee was taken to company doctor and was given a cortisone injection on 11/12/09 .
ee was crossing the conveyor belt when the belt came on throwing him off , causing torn ligaments in his left knee .
ee was working on the dust belt tail pulley , when the slate bar slipped and he hit his knee on the adjustment all thread . he continued working until the shift was finished .
the section has wet and muddy conditions , ee twisted his knee when he turned to move .
ee was washing sweeper truck hopper out with high pressure water hose , when a piece of dry concrete fell down on top of his hat . ee had pain in neck and extending to mid back . after treating with company doctor , ee was referred to a specialist and due to restrictions , he could not return to work on 3/22/10 .
ee was looking at # 7 scaler boom connection & when walking forward , stepped on a slick spot & fell backwards on his back , using his arms to block the fall . ee did not express a need for treatment at the time of the incident . after experiencing shoulder pain , ee sought medical attention & was diagnosed with a torn tendon , requiring surgery .
ee was struck above the right eye by the ventilation tube hanger .
employee was reclaiming highwall with dozer when the dozer flipped and rolled several times landing in the road . employee was unconscious with labored breathing when they got to him .
ee was at a martin marietta ( customer ) job site and was using a customer provided 1 '' drive impact wrench to loosen/tighten bolts while changing out blow bars on a crusher . protruding pin from impact wrench extension caught ee's glove & twisted ee's r hand , bending thumb way back . ee sustained strain to hand , causing soft tissue/ligament damage/swelling . mri ordered .
during a belt splicing operation , the ee's knife slipped & cut his rt . upper leg . he was taken to the e.r. , where stitches were used to close the wound .
he was handling a piece of corrigated sheet metal in the muddy conditions when it cut him .
ind was getting off his buggy in coal yard to get supplies when he fell on snow covered ice injuring his lower back .
while working on a piece of equipment he slipped and strained his mcl in his left knee .
after being told to stay on cone deck the individual went up the side of the cone box anyway , in the process of getting down : he slipped and fell to the cone reservior and then to the ground . he sustained laceration to the scalp and possibly fracture in vertebrace he is ambulatory . we have received no dr. report at this time .
the injured was located an oil leak on the roof bolter . he placed his left hand on the hose he suspected and instructed the operator to pressure it . unknowingly he had his left index finger di rectly over the hole in the hose . when it was pressurized it pieced the skin and infected his finger with hydraulic oil .
the ee was reparing the manlift of the 120 shovel . when he depressed the latch mechanism , the lift swung away from the shovel causing the ee to loose his balance and fall approx . twelve feet t o the ground . the incident became reportable on on jan 11,2001 , when the ee sought medical attention for a chipped tooth .
ee was marking up chain hangers & tripped over a hollow block , fell to the ground and struck his left hand on another hollow block .
off duty employees traveling in private vehicle collided with another vehicle on mine access road . two employees sustained injuries including multiple contusions , abrasions , brusing and fractures to leg .
ee was rodding a # 1 feeder on 3 silo cb-2701 belt . the feeder was plugged off and ee continued to rod and a chunk broke loose and fell on the rodding bar twisting and jarring ee's back .
injured employee was troubleshooting an over-temperature problem on a head gate gear box . when the hose going from the gear box to the motor was removed , excess water from inside the hose spilled out onto his l arm saturating 3 layers of long-sleeve clothing causing severe burn .
6-a section - injured was holding an oil hose on the miner ( trying to find an oil leak ) the miner operator energized the machine . the hose injured was holding had a pin in it which injected hy d oil into his rt index finger .
the employee was attempting to bend a roofbolt to put in the roof , the bolt slipped forcing his hand into the bolting machine . this resulted in a broken bone , in his left hand , behind the ring finger .
ee reported numbness in right and left hands from the continous years of working in different job duties at his mining career . surgery on 11/17/2011
ee alleges that while lifting a guard , he felt a sharp pain in his back .
ee was attempting to clear the suction line on a sump pump . he had hooked up a 1 '' water hose to the suction of the pump in an attempt to clear the plug . when the line cleared , lime slurry spla shed up & covered ee from head to toe . he sustained minor chemical burns to his cheeks & right ear . both eyes also sustained minor chemical burns . antibiotics were prescribed for the eyes , ma
ee was shoveling ribs in the # 6 track entry 11 breaks outby # 3 belt drive and a brow fell and struck him on the right side , injuring his right arm and head . brow was approximately 3 ' long , 2 ' wide , and 6 '' thick .
employee was repairing air conditioner on loader ( the screen came off and he was replacing it ) . he got two fingers caught in the air conditionerfan .
ee walked behind another ee who was grinding on a metal piece when a piece of metal flew from the grinder and hit him in the right eye .
a roof fall was discovered on this date . the fall occurred on 3-north-2 main return at crosscut # 75 in the # 2 entry . the fall measured 25 ' by 25 ' and was 8 ' in thickness . the fall area was previously supported with 5 ' hy-tech bolts and cribs . the fall area was cleaned up and resupported . there were no injuries or equipment affected with this fall nor was ventilation affected .
non-injury roof fall was found in 5 left panel off 4-north mains . the roof fall was found during a weekly examination . roof fall begins in no . 5 entry of 5 left panel and extends inby to crosscut no . 12. roof fall then continued into no . 6 entry of 5 left panel . roof fall appears to be approx . 4ft to 8 ft. thick and approx . 18 to 20 feet wide ( see map ) . msha hotline notified .
ee was picking up a sheet of expanded metal . one corner of the sheet snagged the ground and forced the sheet against his elbow .
ee was stacking stone when he felt a pull in his back . the pain went up to his shoulder .
ee stung by bee on the arm . no allergic reaction , no medical treatment necessary .
ee was changing wear plates in sand screw . he cut bolt heads off with torch and was attempting to drive them out with a hammer . he was bracing himself with his left hand and when he swung the hammer to knock the bolts out of one wear plate , it glanced the other and hit his thumb .
the employee had completed her shift and was being seated on the bus to go home . the seat in front of her was reclined all the way back . as she manuevered into the seat , she twisted her left knee . she was evaluated at the e.r . with a diagnosis of acute knee strian and given a full duty release to return to work . she continued to have problems and went to an orthopedist for furt
air boat 1 launched for survey . survey began air boat shut down w/4 ees aboard . attendant notified ; notifications made ; plan formed to launch second ab for retrieval . air boat launched . when they arrived to ab 1 , ab 2 quit running . mayday called ; sup . instructed 2 ees to get marsh master w/ paddle boat , plywood & rope to retrieve ees . marsh master overheated ; ees were removed .
ee shut his hand up in his vehicle door .
5/2/2013 employee advised he slipped and fell crossing over a lift jack on a dozer injuring his neck/shoulder . 5/5/2013 he went to arh emergency room and was examined by dr. and released . 5/6/2013 he went to dr's office and taken off work with a neck strain . the insurer having found this injury compensable , this is being reported as a lost time injury .
installing liner bolts into # 3 rod mill . ee was using a `` spline drive '' impact to install two liner bolts on 3 rod mill . ee reported to medical stating that while using the spline drive his left arm and fingers felt tingly and slightly numb .
ee was oiling the # 1 southeast kiln bearing whensome clinker dust was blown into his right eye . a coupus blower was being used at the time to help cool the bearing & most likely contributed to this incident .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the galatia north 10 , 1070 ' west entry # 3 ( 4w ) headgate off 5w longwall . the fall was approx 40 ' long by 10-15 ' wide by approx 6-10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . thefall area will fall 18e .
ee shoveling spilled material ground to shoulder level and strained shoulder .
a fuse blew in the ross man hoist at 4:40 pm which disabled the man hoist . a message was left f or msha at 5:10 pm . the hoist was back in operation at 5:45 pm . two seperate functional escapewa ys were always in operation .
on 10/26/2014 injured was trying to reset a scoop breaker , his foot slipped and strained his knee . he went to the dr on 11/6/2014 and was placed on restricted duty only .
ee working near welder , accidentally arc flashed in eyes . ee went to doctor that evening . received drops & ointment for flash burn .
ee was helping others to load flinger duster onto the bucket of the scoop . the injured ( not realizing where his foot was ) told the operator to lower the scoop bucket . the operator lowered the bucket & pinched his foot between the bucket & the mine floor . inattention to activity a factor .
standing in manbasket , basket suddenly swung to the left and jarred employee's back .
employee fractured his right elbow . the employee was trouble shooting a piece of equipment that whould not start . he was using a 4 ' ladder to diagnose the issue . he decending the ladder and missed a step and fell to the ground causing the injury .
while bolting ee had sand fall past his safety glasses and into his eye . he received a prescription for eye drops . no restrictions .
team leader pulling a water hose with mantrip , hose came around a mantrip & caught the right front tire , at this point water hose stretched , came loose . hose wrapped around emp . legs , which caused emp . to fall on ground on his left side .
employee was working on a shield . the shear was cutting coal and a rock was thrown striking him on the right leg . sutures were required . no losttime .
bolt steel got hung in top and ee tried to get it out and slipped and hit ee's chest on the drill pot . the bolt steel fell out striking ee's pinky finger .
installing belt on main east 3 # belt , belt pulled into position and was in the process of being cut.ee was holding the upright belt against the rib when the belt was cut , it moved causing ee to loose balance and fall backwards , tripping over the draw bar of the belt dolly causing ee to fall on right elbow and ribs.ee worked 6-8 , then did not return to work til 14th with dr excuse
injured was helping another ee change oil in the d11n bulldozer ( machine # 573 ) . ee was getting out of the machine when he stepped off the track backwards and fell to the ground . site conditions were sunny and warm . ee was taken to the hospital for x-rays .
miner was standing on floor at top of face . a loose board twisted causing miner to fall on his side . miner was examined by a dr and found to be bruised .
packaging at r8 , stacking bags on pallet . packer stopped filling and bag was falling off saddle . ee turned back around to packer and attempted to catch falling bag ( 50 # ) . felt pain in middle of back . he was unable to finish shift due to increasing pain .
employee was picking clay balls from oversize gravel dumped out of a dump truck . ee walked up the side of pile of gravel about 3 to 4 feet , then slipped and strained and possibly tore a ligament in left knee .
ee lifted propane bottle out of john-boat when he felt pain in lower back .
ee was driving a shuttle car when he hit a hole in the roadway causing him to bounce and land hurting his back . he continues to work but the pain would not go away . he is now awaiting surgery . his last date worked was 6-17-03 .
injured was picking up a piece of wood , when he slid his arm down to get a better grip and wood splinter embeded into his forearm .
ee stepped wrong on 3-1-01 he was not concerned and did not want medical treatment on 6-5-01 he advised that he wanted to go to the clinic just to have his knee checked . had mri 6-18-01 .
( iw ) was adjusting the crusher apron with shims on the portable crushing unit . a hydraulic ram that raises the aprons had a bent cylinder , which limited the stroke . the preshift inspection sheet did not indicate an issue nor was it reported to the manager . iw installed a makeshift support whereas the tip of ee's thumb caught between the cylinder and the makeshift support
ees were raking ash from kiln # 2 grates ; ash dust went into ee's eyes .
the employee was working on the 6th floor of preheater tower building scaffolds . the employee stated that he was experiencing pain in his legs and thought nothing of it . employee stated , when he got home his wife gave him some tylenol . he stated that when he woke up his whole right leg was numb .
ee was prying & lifting with slate bar & strained back .
while cleaning hopper out under grizzley on jaw feeder using a bar into hopper , bar hit back wall of hopper kicking bar off to the side striking me on the left check
during a pre-shift examination an unintentional roof fall was found in the # 3 entry intersection . the fall measure 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' and the area was bolted with 4 ' resin bolts . there were no inj uries or property damage reported .
ee filed an alleged hearing loss claim on 9/2/04 . received notice on 9/22/04 , claim no . 2005009637
fell down stairway . talked to man that fell . he had no recogonition of how he fell . no metal skids on wooden steps and improper illumination . was violation statements .
will was exiting cab and lost footing on the access ladder . will fell approximately 55 '' to the ground . it resulted in non-displaced posterior malleolar and oblique fractures through the distal right tibial metaphysis . a minimally displaced oblique fracture of the proximal right fibula .
employee tripped beside miner , elbow hit bundle of roof plates caused laceration . cause of injury was awareness . compliance with rules and regs not a factor .
employee was greasing drive shaft on volvo end dump . after finishing he stood up after being bent over and then notified his shoulder was hurting .
ee was preparing some duct work for install when he proceeded to align duct with his right hand slipped cutting his wrsit with a sharp corner of the duct . all ppe were being used .
while removing rocks from a crusher 1/30/2017 and welding in a crusher the next day employee reported a strain to right knee . on 2/16 ee was evaluated and the doctor prescribed physical therapy making the injury reportable . ee continues to work full duty .
ee was moving a water hose and lost his footing falling . ee received fracture to left middle finger .
ee lacerated his left 4th finger when his wrenchslipped and he struck his hand on a rod . sutureswere used .
welding plate steel on reject bin . tack welded plate with hand under plate , plate steel fell on left hand . he was taken to e.r . where his hand was set , he was released to work . he went to orth opedic surgeon who reset hand and took him off work for 1 week .
employee was entering the excavator climbing up the ladder to the machine . he slipped on ladder bumping rt . leg and holding on rail/handle with lt. arm/hand to stop his fall on 06/26/2008 . employee remained at work until surgery on 09/12/2008 for a ligament in his lt. wrist that was repaired . employee remains off duty .
ee standing next to shovel while vendor and co. mechanic were taking new style teeth off to check and clean . while mechanic was securing pin in adaptor with sledge hammer a piece of steel flew off imbedded in right shoulder received medical name on 9-9-02 indicating surgery removal .
ee was checking equipment , bent over under pipe , then triped ovr bolt on tank top . strain to lower back . ee missed 5/4/04 ( 1 day ) thus constituting msha reportability .
failure to lower dump bed on 773 haul truck , resulting in hitting almaschool bridge . injury caused by safety glasses cutting his nose due to contact with the steering wheel .
ee was replacing a cross member and replacing bolts in s51 ( vibrating grizzly ) , while he was kneeling down he felt a pop in his knee and it was hard to get up and down off the plant .
ee and co-worker were opening valve . valve was stiff . ee reported pain in left shoulder after . ee was taken to the er was released back to work . ee was on last schedule work day . ee reported to work on 6/28/17 reported that ee still had pain in shoulder . ee went to pcp on 6/30/17 . ee report on 7/3/17 to us that ee had been taken off work and referred to another physician .
potential carpal tunnel syndrome right wrist . on 1-17-02 the company accepted the ee's claim of carpal tunnel syndrome in right wrist . although ee firs reported pain in right wrist while opera ting a forklift on 12-10-02 and sought medical attention and removed from service . it was not determined until 01-17-02 from an independent medical review to bew work related .
ee was dismounting the caterpillar 980-b frontend loader . ee claims he had mud on his boots that caused his foot to slip off of the top step of the loader he fell to the ground he hit his knee when he fell .
ee was replacing bolts on screen spring paddle steel plate , when it came loose and pinched his left wrist against steel angle iron .
employee was driving a small mantrip into a crosscut and attempted to manuever past a coal hauler battery when his left front tire contacted the left rib . this caused the steering wheel to jerk and spin suddenly . the spoke of the steering wheel struck the top of his hand . a subsequent mri indicated a fracture , and the employee was taken off work .
roof fall occured on 7/12/08 , no travel way or air way was blocked . no injuries occurred from the fall , the fall occurred on 3rt off of 5rt mains on spad 2713 in the intersection . the fall measured 20ft wide by 20ft in lengh and fell from above anchor point .
ee had put oil in his scoop . while walking back to get into the operator deck some small pieces of rock fell from between the bolts and hit him on the top of his shoulders and upper back .
on 12-6-00 ee reports he hit his elbow while at work on 12-5-00. on 12-7-00 he was taken to see a dr. and diagnosed with a insect bite . on 12-8-00 he went back for folow up and was refered to a hospital and diagnosed with a contusion and aninfection , admitted adn treated during the weekend , released and placed on modified duty .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the old # 1 section ( 001-0 mmu ) of this mine , at spad # 246. the fall was approximately 5 ' to 6'h x 18'w x 40'l . the fall has been breakered off .
employee was diagnosed with pneumoconiosis by a board certified doctor in internal medicine on 11/27/15 . received the email on 5/24/16 . the employee is still working .
elevator malfuntion due to defective door switches . repaired and inspected . put back into service at 12:47 p.m .
a roof fall occurred in # 11 entry of the 6th east at the 1800 ' station . the fall was 6 ' thick 20 ' wide and 20 ' long . the fall did not effect ventialtion , travel , or cause any injury . it did damage continuous miner . the area had been bolted with 3 ' conventional bolts and 6 ' point anchor bolts .
while working on crusher jaw-ee injured elbow while pulling hard on wrench . ee reported 3-19-01 .
emplyee was using a chop saw to cut a piece of metal . when it cut thru his finger slipped into the blade causing a laceration requiring 7 sutures .
reattatching flex hose to cement ( buck ) trailer when flex hose sprang back causing coupler to hit ee in mouth chipping two teeth requiring permanent capping . ee grabbed hose rather than coupler .
a mechanic was in the process of re-installing a cover on the roof bolter when it slipped out of his hands and struck him on both shins . he was taken to dr. office where he received 6 stitches in his left shin . he was placed on restrictive duty by dr .
employee was putting drill upon 6 ft steel . ( 3 ft projection out of bottom ) . he lost balance and fell causing back strain .
employee was removing afc chain links after they had been cut . a flight was also removed . employee picked up flight to throw on headgate when he injured his left shoulder . employee continued working until 12/5/07 when he sought medical attention and was prescribed restricted work duties .
ee was crossing ( climbing ) across a concrete form carrier . he slipped and fell , striking his left knee against the rachet jack .
employee was jackhammering lumps in clinker silo # 2. he was maneuvering in one hand while removing material with the other which caused strain on left wrist .
two employees were working at removing monorail at the longwall headgate . after removing a section the injured ee turned to throw it on top of the stage loader he stated he felt pain in his le ft shoulder .
emp tripped & fell down ( 4 ) steps leaving scale house
employee was awarded 5 % ppd benefits for occupational pneumoconiosos on 12/18/01 . employer was notified by mail on 1/4/02 .
ee called for the road from # 9 head and was told to watch for the supply man who was rockdusting . ee continued traveling through the rock dust with very low visibility and ran into the supply motor at # 16 head . the impact threw him into thecanopy post breaking his cheek bone and giving him a slight concussion .
employee aledges that while working on the cone putting a sensor into place he lost his footing and fell against the feed shoot .
while shoveling out the feed hoppr of the wash plant , employee straine dhis lower back .
ee was kneeling down discussing the completion of a job with his co-worker . when he stood up he experienced dizziness . he attempted to grab onto the handrail but missed . he fell face first onto the grating . he lacerated his mouth and eye and injured his wrist .
rock fall occurred at spad 1005 neutral beside # 7 belt . rock was 20'x 22 ' from 0 to 42 '' . area was cribbed off and did not impede travel or ventilation .
as ee was walking from the cage , he stepped in a hole , slipped and fell .
the mine received notification on april 21 , 2016 , that this employee was granted a 2.57 % award for permanent impairment from noise-induced hearing loss . the incident was caused by the employee's failure to wear the appropriate ppe - hearing protection throughout employee's career . claim 2/11/2016 .
ee was removing a drive pulley guard when it shifted and pinched his finger between the guard and the support leg causing a laceration . ee received several sutures .
ee was operating a 980g loader , making repairs to a leaking damn , at which time he started feeling pains in his lower back . he attributes the pain to all of the jarring bouncing on the loader .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by foreman in old works . fall measured 20 ' wide x 70 ' long x 8 ' high . fall located between 40 cross cuts out by # 2 section near spad # 4605 .
ee was operating a haultruck while the truck wasbeing loaded , a lg . rock fell out of the shovel bucket and into the truck bed . this caused the cab to jerk and the ee reported he bumped his head on the seats headrest . ee later complained of headache , dizziness , confusion . 1st saw dr. on 1-25-02. cat scan showed a cerebralmass . ordered mri to confirm . results in a few days .
the employee was trouble shooting a hydraulic problem on a piece of equipment . the employee stood up from a stooped position and felt pain in the right knee . the employee continued to work until surgical intervention was required on november 12 , 2009 , at this point the incident became an msha reportable `` accident '' .
emp was working in # 5 finish mill removing mill liners . emp was prying under liner while other emp was using a 20lb . sledge to loosen liner . pieces of liner broke off striking emp in the upper rt . arm and upper leg . sm piece was removed from upper arm stitches were required . the piece in his upper leg required surgery- lt as of 08/28/09 .
ee was removing the pan liners on the conveyor , he had all the liners loose but two when he stepped on a loose pan which fell out , his other leg which was on the last pan then broke through th at pan and ee fell about 4 ' to the ground .
ee received an elctrical shock while attempting to replace a power board on the continusous miner .
employee was operating a d10 dozer to lower the face height and push down large rocks from the cap rock for the loader . the operator was developing a key cut against the highwall side when he struck a large rock that caused the blade to skim over and as the tracks advanced , the dozer tipped over on its side .
while removing a jammed piece of slate in the automatic trimmer , which ee had turned off , his arm hit one of the trimmer blades , cutting arm .
employee was installing a roof bolt in the hole . when he put the roof bolt under the glue and into the wrench , the roof bolt plate struck him on the rt forearm causing laceration .
the supervisor was using a four foot bar to pry down a loose rib . the top portion of the rib was loose and when he pried the top area , the bottom part of the rib popped out and landed on his left foot . ee was wearing leather metarsal boots.ex-ray showed fractures to his left foot .
a roof fall was discovered at 64 brk # 1 south mains in the # 2 entry the fall measured 20 ' wide x 20 ' long x 7 ' thick and did not affect ventilation or travel .
was inspecting back-filling operation . one man went to move the compactor wacker and ee reached to help him move it & when he did ee felt a snap & shooting pain in upper arm .
he was walking down return to talk with foreman about supplies , when rib rashed out into entry and knocked his feet out from beaneath him . falling to the ground .
a fall of roof occurred in the 1st left panel in # 3 entry at station spad # 8 + 20 , 17 cross cut . the fall was approximately 50 feet in length x 20 feet in width x 12 feet thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
employee was walking along the e-17 longwall stageloader carrying a spray bar jack when he stepped on a 42mm chain and felt a pinch on the top of his right foot . he continued to work until 5/17/08 when he began missing work .
ee was lifting a piece of belt to load on his golf cart when he felt a pain in his lower back . his back continued to bother him & on 10/26/01 hehad surgery . he started missing work on 10/26/01
ee was roof bolting putting in cable bolts , when he had the hole drilled the proper length , he started to take out the steels when they got stuck , he got the first pusher steel out . when he lo oked up to the other ones , he had his left hand on the head of the bolter head , & the steels released & hit his left hand on bolter head .
employee sustained a laceration to his finger on his left hand while pulling on a bar . the bar broke free smashing his finger between the stack of bars and the he was pullign on . the lacerat ion required sutures .
employee was installing a strap with a roof bolter . 1 end was bolted to the top . as he was trying to push it around to get it straight , his footing slipped and he fell against the strap resulting in a cut to his wrist . cut was between gloves and keblar sleeve . he was taken to whitesburg arh and received 5 stitches . he was released to full duty and returned to the mine .
when working at the dock ee felt a sharp pain in his left shoulder . it is suspected that he has a torn rotator cuff and he is on restricted duty .
injured was walking into the 8th north seals when he stepped in a hole and twisted his right knee causing pain and discomfort . he continued working . on 11/8/01 he went to the doctor and receiv ed medication for inflamation . on 11/13 he went for a mri . he still has not missed any work at this time . it didn't become reportable until now .
ee was checking coolant on a grader . his foot slipped off of step and fell .
was walking after getting out of truck . did not slip , trip or fall . felt sharp pain his right knee . it is my opinion that this is a recurrence of his long term knee problems , however i receive d a citation for failing to report this as a newevent . i am reporting this to abate this citation .
the # 1 belt conveyor stalled during normal operations , the injured ee and co-worker were told to check the problem out . the v-belt guard was removed . ee placed hand on the upper v-belt . the belt conveyor pressure released itself turning counter clockwise pulling ee's fingers into the pulley , severing parts of three fingers .
during part 50 audit , this injury was determined reportable due to pt therapy . employee strained his back while pulling belt at the tailpiece of the longwall . cause of this injury was having body twisted while pulling . compliance with rules/regs , mining equip/systems not a factor , ppe ( back support ) and miner proficiency may be a factor .
a roof fall occurred on the 3w roadway at cross-cut 5 in entry # 5. the cause of the fall was weak laminted roof shale . the fall blocked a supply road to the wheatland portal . the fall will be cleaned up and the roof and area will be re-supported .
ee energized the scoop battery charger , and an electrical flash occurred , causing his right hand , neck & forehead to be burned .
while examining # 1 south belt , ee tripped over a water cine and fell . thus injuring his knee . ee started missing work on 10/11/02 .
injured employee was helping change urathane screens when a coworker pounding wedges lost his grip on a hammer . the hammer struck the injured employee in the nose causing a nose bleed and immediate swelling . a follow up appointment with an ear , nose and throat specialist on 5/27/2008 determined as the swelling went down that there was a hairline fracture to the tip of his nose .
employee was moving barrells of oil around for the kiln gear reducers oil replacement and that night his back began to bother him .
during kiln shutdown , employee was using impact wrench to tighten bolts on the mid-kiln probes at the rotary kiln between the shell and shroud . to do the job , he had to lay on his back or side , and he got a foreign body in his right eye . physician removed fb with needle and prescribed medication .
associate was helping out at the washplant , raking fines at the dewatering screen when the rake got caught and yanked out of the associates hand .
railroad switch was iced over . ee jumped on it to dislodge it . foot slipped & twisted ankle
employee stated that he was observing several employees making a splice in `` c '' belt . the employees were using a splice machine . ee reached to move the plunger when another employee struck his left hand and left index finger with a sixteen pound sledgehammer .
employee stepped down off platform at kiln 2 vent fan , twisted knee and felt pain . he reported incident but refused medical treatment on this date . follow up showed torn left medial meniscas in left knee . surgery on 11/02/2006 made this a reportable lost time accident as of this date .
ee was moving some rocks and felt a strong pain in his back , he continued to work and the pain did not go away so he went to the hospital .
employee turned in letter stating that ee had been diagnosed with silicosis .
employee was given a diagnosis of pneumoconiosis by dr. on 1/19/06 and the safety department was notified 2/8/06 . he has not msised any work to date
employee was cleaning the kiln riser using the woma lance . as he pulled trigger , a pin hole in the barrel allowed the high pressure water to shoot thru ee's glove .
injured was performing clean-up work in lime basement area using a high pressure water jet . injured's feet slipped on wet lime causing him to fall . when he fell , he accidently hit the trigger of the water jet spray nozzle and shot the top of his right foot .
ee was removing a wheel chock that was used to fill in a ditch that caused the buggy to get high centered , when removing the last piece of timber from the back wheel , the unit moved forward 2 - 3 '' causing his right thumb to be pinched/caught between the buggy rear mancarrier & the wheel chock pinching the tip of the right thumb off .
injured was riding mantrip when the portal bus came upon a broken rail one part went down on part stayed uncausing bus to come to a sudden stop . throwing men forward causing a bruise to right hip and neck .
ee was entering his truck when his foot slipped and his leg struck the cat walk .
the roof bolter was stuck in the roadway . when the scoop operator pushed on the back of the bolter to straighten it out , the front of the bolter slid into ee who had walked to the front side of the bolter fouling him against the rib .
in the process of chipping ice in the livingston portal elevator shaft , a piece of ice fell damaging an elevator door switch on the shaft bottom . an employee became stuck on the elevator in the process . the employee was able to get off elevator at 7:48pm . there were no injuries as a result of this incident .
ee was cutting with torch helping welder . the welder flashed causing a burn to both eyes .
employee was dumping lead cans into volvo loader . while attempting to hook the crane arm on the can ear , his finger was mashed between the crane arm and the can ear . laceration to right middle finger , 1st joint and laceration requiring 11 sutures .
ee was using a cross-over to go make a seal on the examination route . when they stepped off of the cross-over they slipped & cut head on the hand rail of the cross-over . ee received 3 staples to close the wound but returned to work on the next shift . no work was missed due to this incident .
employee had raised the forks and mask of the mega trac to see what was needed to repair or replace the lift jack . the employee positioned himself under the mask ; the mask leaked down and pinned the employee between the mine floor and mask .
lightning strike on surface initiated underground face rounds . no injuries or damage . mine was utilizing electric intiatition system for nonel face rounds . potential pathway for lightning to induce current in blasting system was determined .
when the drill bit contacted the immediate roof a layer of draw rock measuring 17 inches x 17 inches x feather edge to 1 inch thick , fell striking ee on ee's right thumb and forefinger resulting in 2 broken bones and 1 fractured bone .
ee tightening lug nuts on coal truck wheel . wrench slipped . ee lost balance , fell and hit on his left side and hand .
while on mantrip , face contacted roof , resulting in cut over eye and blackening of right eye .
ee cut a tree about 6 inches in diameter . the tree fell across a tree lying on the ground . the butt of the tree he cut sprung up and struck him in the jaw .
ee was working at the power house on the # 2 boiler for about 2 hours without a break or water when he began to experience muscle cramps .
ee was using a chain ratchet to remove a cable tray off of old stage loader in old pullout area when chain ratchet came loose striking him in the mouth , causing a laceration requiring 4 sutures . this was ee's last shift before starting his already-scheduled vacation . he returned to work on next scheduled shift .
employee was loading highway truck tires into van to take to vendor for balancing . when putting tires into van , one tire fell back against his leg , hyperextending his left knee .
employee stepped on a plastic shield and slipped , hyperextending her right knee .
on 6/14/2013 we were notified by worker's compensation that he was awarded cwp benefits . employee last worked on 3/31/2008 and is no longer employed with the company . the accident date of 3/31/2008 is to accommodate online reporting per msha ( denver ) instructions .
ee was changing bottom deck screen on station 8. he went to climb onto bottom deck screen with his left hand and felt pain through his arm and shoulder . ee could not straighten arm without feeling pain .
ee was bending a piece of metal down a drain hole when the metal snapped back and lacerated his right forearm .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west submain , entry # 3 , crosscut # 19. the fall was approximately 20 ' long , 20 ' wide and 8 ' tall . the area was bolted with 6 ' & 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
while working with another employee to install a return roller , the roller slipped out of ee hands and hit him in the nose .
injured was climbing onto left side of d9t dozer . when he reached the landing to the cab and began to open the cab door he slipped . he turned his body and slipped to the ground landing on his feet and buttocks . strained rt shoulder , lower back and rt hip . possible subluxation of rt hip .
ee states she was carrying piece of metal and tripped over extension cord that contractor had just put in place . she fell and struck knees on grating . got prescription for ibuprofen . ( has been under review . )
ee was assisting in setting tailpiece when 3/8 '' chain broke and turned one side of tailpiece loose striking ee in lower back and buttocks .
ee slipped and fell on handrails while dismantling forms .
ee was operating the drill & he went to step out of the cab to check on his drill depth . he lost his footing & fell from the drill deck approximately 6 feet . he fell on his right shoulder & right side of his face .
employee was installing fence guarding under the plant feed belt . employee kneeled down and reached out to pick up one end of a fence panel and felt a pain in his back . employee was treated at camc memorial division where he received injections . employee began missing work 3/17/14 and did not contact management or safety to inform us of his medical treatment .
member was cutting belt in order to make a splice for a belt move . while cutting the belt , the knife slipped cutting his knee . member recieved 11 stitches to his right knee .
employee was hanging flypads when he was struck by a scoop on the working section .
employee was operating diesel ram car , ran car under drisco dewatering pipe . adequate clearance was not provided . pipe came into operators compartment striking employee . employee began missing work 06202005
on 2/13/06 due to occupational illness , as substaniated by med records/reports , ee became unable to work because of the ailments described in med reports of previous acc 11/15/03 . ee stated this is an ongoing problem since orginal acc 11/15/03 and not due to one single event at the mine , but repeated trauma over extended period since 11/15/03
the ee was welding the hopper perimeter while in a position kneeling at ground level . the area was well ventilated & several other ee's were working nearby . for an undetermined reason , the ee lost consciousness and hit his face on the structural steel he was welding . he regained awareness & climbed from the hopper on his own power . at the er he received sutures in his upper lip .
ee cleaning surface belt structure , slipped on pipe and hit left kneecap on structure . returned for next scheduled shift . worked until 1/3/08 . condition had worsened over time requiring surgery on 1/3/08 .
while bolting a piece of roof scale fell striking the ee above the right knee which resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
injured was replacing a return roller on a conveyor . as he pulled the old roller out from underneath the conveyor it caught ont he conveyor support structure causing a shoulder strain prescri bed physical therapy 3-27-00 .
he was on his machine and it malfunctioned ... the blade came down too quickly . when he got his hand away from the blade his left index finger got trapped between the stone and the head of the m achine . that took the tip of his finger off .
ee was walking to his truck and crilled his ankle in a rut .
the employee was operating scoop hauling timbers to section and the band broke allowing timbers to roll and scatter about the mine floor . he stopped the machine and was dismounting , getting his foot caught twisting his rt . knee .
while dropping the miner cable in the # 6 entry the injured person felt a sharp pain in the lower back . he continued trying to work but the paincontinued to increase . scoop operator transferre d him outside on the section mantrip .
cable wheel hanging splided out of hand hit in face knocking injures person to ground .
employee has been experiencing pain and numbness in his left arm , hand and elbow . an appointment was secured with the doctor . he was diagnosed with carpal tunnel and was placed on restricted d uty until he could see an orthopedic specialist . he is scheduled to have surgery on feb 19 , 2003 .
ee was standing on bolter boom in down position , inserting a tube of glue into a drilled hole . ee slipped off bolter boom striking his left elbow against the side of the bolter .
ee was unloading timbers and dropped a timber which landed on top of his left hand which he had lying on a scoop bucket .
the ee was int he process of removing track rails . when lifting on a rail loose a slate bar , he felt a phen in his left shoulder and arm .
ee was adjusting kiln when a sudden gust of wind blew a foreign object into his eye . he went to the clinic for treatment where they removed a piece of steel that was embedded in his left eye .
crew was adding a piece of washover casing on an angle hole . employee's left middle finger was pinched between casing and derrick . fracture to tip of finger . x-ray , splint , and return to work
as bolter cable was reeled up , employee was struck by cable on right knee . ee had micro surgery on 9-1-16 and became reportable at that time . ee did not miss any work and is currently on restricted duty .
on the south section 1st s.e . submains in # 2 entry at spad # 15 & 95 roof fall occurred . the fall was 25 ' long 18 ' wide and 10-12 ' thick . no equipment involved , vent not affected .
employee was helping to saw cut an opening in the concrete.he was wearing safety glass and a face shield along with respirator because of the dust . he stopped cutting and was taking a short br eak and was removing his safety equipment causing the dust to fall in his eyes . he started rubbing his eyes and pushed the dust farther . then we took him to er .
ee was using a come-a-long to clean up under the 7x30 and pulled something in his back .
lifting on wheel unit , ee said he hurt his back .
the cedar creek service elevator was out os service from approx . 200 am until 5 20 am due to a wire being off of the interlock l conductor .
ee was loading glue on bolter felt lower back give out .
ee was cleaning rock off section crusher when a rock smashed his right index finger .
foreman was fatally injured when he was crushed with the rear wheels of a loaded ford 9000 coal truck . the accident occurred when the victim bent over to move a water hose and was crushed by t he rear wheels of the coal truck moving in reverse toward the raw coal bins .
ee was moving some metal screens around in the back of pickup truck with the help of a vendor . doing so , ee's finger got caught between two of them and caused the thin edge of the screen to cut into finger tip . it cut part of the nail so it required 2 stitches .
ee was shoveling and got clinker dust in his eyes . he was given first aid and was alright . that evening he went to the emergency room without notifying company representatives . because of the patient privacy act , we were not able to obtain medical information until today 2/5/2010 , at which time this became reportable .
ie unsuccessfully tried pulling a pin from a belt splice . ee used a claw hammer to grab the pin then struck the claw hammer with another hammer . as hammer struck hammer a metal shard dislodged , became a projectile and struck the ie's left forearm . the shard was removed at the local er , two sutures were required to close the opening caused by removing the shard .
as the bolter was being trammed backwards in a narrow place , ee tried to get by the bolter as itwas moving and got caught between the bolter andrib .
while jogging the blower on the 08-04 fk pump , dust flew into the employee left eye .
ee was putting up a 12 foot rope bolt and some draw rock fell out around it and the plate came down and cut his wrist , he received 5 stitch .
ee was walking on unlevel dirt drive when he sprained his ankle .
ee was injured during roof bolting procedures . he inserted the drill steel into the drill pot of a dual head roof bolter , raised the boom to start the drilling process . when the drill steel came in contact with the roof a small piece of draw rock fell measuring approx 1 ' x 1 ' & 0 to 1 '' thick striking him on the forearm causing a laceration that required four sutures to close .
employee was hanging miner cable and stepped on a small piece of roof rock and felt pain in his left foot . there is no mechanism of injury due to the sole of the work boots being extremely thick . he has had no prior foot pain due to his pre-existing condition of having a cavovarus foot . he was taken off work on april 11 , 2014 .
ee was trying to open primary jaw with borrowed porter power when adjuster bolt holding two suppressed springs broke and the plate holding the springs hit his right leg . was given a restricte d duty release on 2/4/04 which was within his regular job functions . however , he returned to the doctor on 2/10/04 and was given a release that was not within his normal duties .
getting ice from ice machine , door fell down hitting ee on nose causing a fracture .
employee was installing a tensioner cylinder in tailgate using a crane . he pushed on cylinder to line pinhole up and felt something in shoulder snap .
maintenance worker had been cutting , welding , and preforming regular maintenance duties throughout the day . employee was perspiring and used sleeve to wipe perspiration from cheeks . few minutes later ee felt like eye had something in it . ee washed eye out , but eye was still irritated . took employee to doctor . eye was scratched . rx given to prevent infection .
employee was walking along the plant feed belt and he tripped on an `` i '' beam causing him to fall . as he was falling he reached out his right hand to break his fall causing a sprain to his righ t hand .
ee was knocking stoppings with sledge hammer and moving cinder blocks and moving a pump . ee's back started tightening up and pain and a burning sensation started in his lower back radiating up to his shoulders . ee's left leg and hip started getting numbness in them the next day .
a maintenance employee was rolling up 50 foot sections of an old conveyor belt for disposal . after finishing rolling up 3 sections the employee started another section . ee started rolling in the kneeling position for 1 turn then ee stood up and hurt ee's lower back . ee went to a doctor on 4/3/17 who diagnose a muscle strain and reported the injury to management at that time .
employee was hanging hog panel to rib screen when a piece of t channel dislodged from the roof and struck him on the head . medical treatment injury .
ee was removing ventilation curtain in the # 5 intersection to move the miner to the # 6 heading . the ee could not get the curtain down . he then stepped on the bottom of curtain to gain leverage . the ee did not know there was a pogo stick on the back of the curtain . he pulled the curtain down bringing the pogo stick with it . the stick struck ee in the mouth , miner chipped tooth .
mining operation was in process of changing the main hoist cable . employees were using the escape hoist to enter & exit the mine . while 3 employees were on escape hoist , the hoist malfunctioned , suspending the 3 for approx . 15 mins . temp . repairs made to extract miners . mine shut down until permanent repairs made . msha notified at 0500 hours & left voice message .
ee became weak from heat & loss of fluid due to 95 degree temperature & humidity .
ee was shoveling material off of p-5 belt and figures that he pulled some muscles in his back while doing that . he didn't feel any pain right away , until friday ( 2-21-03 ) morning .
employee pinched finger between boom of service truck and cap/bar on crusher . ee received 3 stitches and broke the tip of finger .
the employee was attempting to remove a broken carbis cage , but it was stuck . ee kicked the cage to free it , resulting in an injury to right foot . initially , the pain was not severe , and ee thought it would subside . on 04/03 , ee reported to their supervisor that they would miss work due to the injury . ee later saw a doctor and found that they had fractured their 5th metatarsal .
employee was turning a 4 yard mucker around at a muckbay , when he over steered in the turn , running into the rib with the bucket , he was leaning forward when the bucket hit the rib & he struck his mouth on the door . this resulted in a laceration , which required 1 suture . full release was issued & he reported for his next shift .
abnormal chest x-rays found during routine pulm-onary function/chest x-rays co. conservation program screening . when a second opinion was ob-tained by pulmonary specialist , it was diagnosed as pneumoconiosis , felt to be consistent with work related exposure to diatomaceous earth .
employee was repositioning a blower assembly ( fan and motor ) to put heavy side against dolly back ribs , when he felt a sharp pain in lower left side of back . ee was taken to dr and put on restricted duty .
ee was lifting a piece of 4'x1 ' metal punch plate when his left hand was punctured by the edge of the metal . he was taken to gibson general er in princeton , in where he recieved one suture and a tetanus shot .
road was dry ; weather warm & overcast . he lost control of volvo truck as he started down hill and jumped out , breaking his left collar bone .
ee was shoveling coal onto the belt in the raw coal tunnel when he experienced pain in his neck and back .
employee stated that he was uncoupling a 3 '' victraulic alum . waterline that was hung on a conveyor tail piece and against a coal rib . not realizing the there was tension on the pipe when he uncoupled it and he was standing on the loaded side and the line sprange back and struck him on the leg . he was removed from the mine and transported to medical services .
employee went to see a doctor on 1/16/04 and was placed on restricted duty until 1/19/04 due to a fracture to his toe . employee was turning over a skid steer bucket to install a new bottom pie ce and bucket dropped on his left foot causing a contusion to left foot and a fraction to his left toe .
roof fall between belt and track at brk . 29 on 1 south belt . fall is approximately 19 foot wide . there is a permanent stopping on belt side of fall and the intersection is cribbed on both sides .
ee was hit by rock , that fell between pins and rib .
the operator heard a noise on the top of the engine compartment of a 980 loader # 308. the operator got out of the cab to check it out . as he started to go back into the cab lost his grip and f ell to the ground .
ee was removing nuts & bolts from a frt loader with an airwrench ee came into contact with spinning bolt & lacerated finger
ee was using a torch to cut a drive line free and a spark went behind his safety glasses and burned his eyelid .
the employee was attempting to align two pieces of polypipe . when the two pieces of pipe came together , they pinched his right hand causing a laceration on his ring finger , which required six ( 6 ) stitches .
member stepped on a nail that had been in a pallet . went to hospital after work and received a tetnus shot .
welder was air arcing in the msb weld shop on a truck box . he apparently experienced a foreign body in his right eye . nothing found in eye but prescriptive medication was administered as a pre caution .
ee was adjusting cooler pallets . the pallet arm was held down with 50ton hydraulic portapower head . he had just finished tightening the palletarm wheel bolt & was removing pneumatic impact w rench the air hose to the wrench hit the pressure release lever on the hydraulic pump for the porta power had & the head fell out from the top of the pallet arm & landed on his toes
ee was assisting with completion of conveyor belt replacement and was guiding large tail pulley guarding screen into final position when the tip of his finger got caught in a pinch point contact of upper & lower guards that cover the tail pulley .
ee was picking up stone to stack . when he went to set a piece down , he did not get his hand out from under the stone and it slid down and smashed his fingers - causing one to be broken .
the employee was working on the main bag house - west collecting screw . the screw was chocked up and he was driving the slide gates out to dump the screw . as he was striking the gate handle wi th a hammer , he missed and hit his right hand on the handle of the slide .
ee was attempting to move 50-gallon barrels of oil when the rims on the barrels came together , pinching his left thumb . ( cut/bruised - stitches required . )
ee was preparing to service transmission of the 988g loader . he had jack stand in place and was in the process of placing the bottle jack . the bottle jack slipped out of his hand before it was fully on the jack stand and fell on ee's thumb . the impact broke the thumb in three places . this was found on 12/22 ; it was thought to be a sprain when it first happened .
the employee was loading belt structure onto a pallet . ee fractured right ring finger and also received 5 stitches .
employee was observing the continuous miner grading bottom when he was struck by a piece of coalrib and rock brow .
the ee was cleaning the south tower using a broom to sweep the floors . airborne dust entered the ee's right eye while performing this task . the ee went to the dr. and had the eye flushed and w as given a prescription of eye drops .
customer was driving the empty truck down the quarry road when it toppled over and rolled 200 feet down and driver was thrown from truck as ee did not have a seatbelt on . accident pending california highway patrol ( chp ) report . not our employee , was a customer .
020-0 mmu roof fall in the fare of no.1 and no.2both falls were 8-10ft . high x width of entry x approx . 30ft . long . no equipment or people involved . 5ft . fully grouted resin bolts were install ed in this area .
ee was walking down an embankment to board a work boat for transport to dredge . ground was wet . he slipped and slid down embankment . his right heel wedged between boat and bank . he caught hims elf with his right arm and his arm and shoulder hit the bank hard .
miner was loading 6 '' pvc pipe into the back of a plant pick-up truck when his right hand moved over a burr on the pipe . the miner was not wearing gloves and sustained a laceration to his right hand . the miner was treated at knox county hospital where he received a tetanus vaccination and 7 stitches to close the would . he was released to full duty .
ee was using a z drill , roof bolting the top on the longwall face . drill steel got caught in the hole , twisting the drill and pulling ee's body sideways , straining his lower back .
clearing `` gyp ii silo starvation '' by hitting side of silo with hammer . struck finger against electrical concuit .
employee was swinging a steel bar trying to break a nut loose and strained shoulder . ***on the 28th the doctor returned him to full duty with no restrictions and scheduled an mri . after the mri the doctor reviewed him again and on 5/21/2015 put employee on work restrictions thus this report .
left front tire blew out . it's beleived explosion blew oil filter base into starter with a short circuit occurring .
ee slipped and fell on mine floor from conveyor boom of shuttle car .
west mains 58 block # 4 heading , 4-way mmu 001 . 8 ' high , 20 ' wide , 20 ' long . type support : 6 ' resin bolts , 6 '' x16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off . additional roof supports set around fall
ee was using an air impact to tighten nuts when particle got in eye . reported injury due to continued irritation
rock fall was found during preshift examination on the date stated above , the fall was approx 70 ' long 19 ' wide 2-6 ' thick , located in the # 3 entry on the 3rd main .
ee was stepping off side of service truck , stepped onto piece of coal , foot slipped and broke ankle bone .
employee was dismounting a caterpillar 769c haul truck when his left foot became wedged between the bottom of the bumper and the factory mounted hanging bumper step . right foot slipped off the bottom step . this action caused the employee to lose his balance and 3 points of contact and he then fell to the ground . the doctor immobilized his leg and an mri will be done on 10-4-13 .
climbing out of trailer over a fender , left foot stepped on piece of coal , ankle gave out . tried to catch himself with hand on fender , it slipped and he fell out of trailer landing on ribs/ ba ck .
employee was splashed with caustic that was entrained in scale . he was removing scale build-up from an angle valve that he was repairing . at that time he was sent to a local hospital for treat ment . burns were only first degree . he went to the plant medical department on 11/21/01 with a severly infected right arm . antibiotics were prescribed . no lost time or work restrictions .
employee stated that he was loading rock dust onto the scoop when he turned with a bag of dust in his arms and hurt his left knee . he continued to work his regular job and consulted a dr. who performed surgery on 3-28-07 to repair cartlidge in his knee .
ee was operating a handtool ( portaband ) to cut pipe . ee was holding hard under the pipe being cut when he cut through the pipe and cut his finger , requiring 7 stitches .
ee had picked up a roll of curtain when he attempted to turn he felt a pull in his lower back . ee went for chiropractic adjustments on 11-20-01 .
employee was operating a diesel scoop on m.e . tway . while tramming the scoop the operator inadvertantly ran over a 6 ft steel jack laying along the rib . the end of the jack was pushed into the operator's cab , striking the employee .
employee was moving the continuous miner cable out of the haul road with the help of shuttle car operator when he said he felt pain in the back of his left leg . employee continued to work until 9-10-2014 when he said his leg was still bothering him and he sought medical attention at williamson arh hospital where he was diagnosed with a pinched nerve .
ee was using porta power ( jack ) to spread slat conveyor ; block slipped and porta power jumped up and hit ee on the upper lip , cutting upper lip .
while making a belt splice , the employee was striking the belt pin with a hammer & a piece of metal chipped off the hammer , puncturing ee in the leg . ee received a tetanus shot & 2 stitches .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the elk creek mine . 1st west section x-cut 41 in the # 2 entry . the fall measured 18'wide x 32'long and 9-10 ' high . inby lw face .
while exiting the mantrip , employee's right shoulder and right knee struck against mantrip .
the employee was welding an ibeam the steel i beam was rolled over to access the other side , the beam came loose from a chain and fell , about 2 feet onto his left foot . his left big toe was fractured behind the steel toe in his boot . this resulted in a lost time injury
ee was back dragging road going down to pit area . it was snowing and visibility was low . he backed over a rock while looking over shoulder and in a twisted position . felt pain in lower back .
east 3 , between 46 & 47 bloc , # 1 entry , mmu 007 40 ft long x 17 ft wide x 7 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , roof mats fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
a fall of the roof occurred on the 2nd se mains , # 1 unit , crosscut 148 , entry # 2 ( intersection ) . the fall measured approximately 20 ' length , 18'-20 ' width , & 7'-15 ' thick . the fall has been cleaned up according to our approved rehab plan , additional support has been installed in the area , with the fall area being arched .
employee trimming bolter dust hose on 1 east 3 block , 2-3 crosscut , and needed to change knife blade . while pulling old blade out his hand slipped and ran his left thumb across the blade , resulting in a laceration requiring 5 sutures . gloves worn . no problems with ppe , mining methods , training or compliance issues .
the ie slipped and fell to the ground when stepping out of the vehicle . the ie experienced pain in the right knee and was treated at first aid , then transported to the hospital for further evaluation . the ie was referred to an orthopedic doctor . an mri was ordered and was read on 12-19. the ie was diagnosed with a meniscus tear and will undergo orthoscopic surgery .
installing a wire roof mat - the mat slipped striking the ee in the forehead .
ee was lifting on oversize chute door and he strained a muscle in his back .
ee was pulling tarp on clinker pile , when he felt strain in abdomen . ee had undergone non-work related hernia surgery approx 1 year prior , of which he received full release to work . upon current incident he went to physician as precautionary measure . physician prescribed restricted duty as precaution .
hearing loss - sts of 11db in right ear .
at apporx 07:45 operator ee while dismounting the cat d9r dozer twisted his right knee . he was taken to the clinic and released to lld until his follow up appt in a week .
ee stepped from hitch knuckle on car to release and as his hand was on the brake wheel he stepped on uneven asphalt and tried to break his fall and dislocated his left elbow .
the employee got his finger caught between the arm of the plant coal crusher crank and the levelint arm of the crusher . mashed his finger .
ee was sitting in the guard house when he had a coughing spell . the coughing spell caused him to fall out the chair and hit his head on the floor .
driver had removed the 3 side panels from the stake bed delivery truck and leaned them against the opposite side of the truck . a strong gust of wind caused the stacked side panels to fall and strike the driver in the back , causing the driver to fall to the ground from the truck bed . ee broke ee's left arm between the shoulder and elbow and had other minor abrasions .
as injured ee was removing rock accumulated under conveyor table , other nearby 4 '' rock fell striking and bruising the topof his right hand .
6 man crew was planting vegetation in 18 '' of water . worker was bit on left side by an alligator . pre-job inspection showed no alligator presence . spotter in place did not see gators until incident occurred . employee taken to emergency room treated for injury on left hand , significant damage to thumb . also cuts on torso under left arm and abrasions on back and stomach .
ee was doing maintenance on air cannons on k3 tower . ee was using a faceshield however when he looked up he got something in his left eye and had to get prescription eye drops .
ee had just parked the tractor by the ore muck bay . he stepped off of the tractor and his left foot came down on a small rock . he twisted his left ankle .
ee was struck on the cheek by a j hook that had come loose . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
employee was working on magnetic separator drum , changing endcap , when the chain slipped and drum fell and hit his left hand .
fuel truck was being towed into place with a wench and a dozer behind it . the wench dozer developed slack . the truck rolled back against the blade of the dozer . the ee had a mild whiplash .
was pulling electric cords and hanging them in the rack on a bin . thought that is was a pulled muscle . on 8/10 went to doctor and said do physical therapy . on 9/6 was placed on light duty because no progress . on 11/9 reached out of dump truck to shut lime bin off and got pain in shoulder . had mri same day and on 11/10 was diagnosed with left torn rotator cuff . surgery 12/13 .
an employee was walking up the steps to the morenci mine office when he was stung twice in the neck by an insect before the beginning of shift .
the tailgate entry on the 8 left longwall panel became impassable due to a roof fall measuring 10 ' w , 6'l , 8'high . all employees were removed from the face area and trained on scsr's and escape routes . when mining resumed , 2 passes were required to mine past the fall .
on 9-27-2010 employee submitted an accident report claiming that on 4-19-2010 his foot got tangled on banding material stuck under a pallet causing him to trip and fall off a platform and hit a hopper before landing on the floor . accident was reported 23 weeks after the injury . employee went on fmla on 5-12-2010 .
ee was using a hand held grinder to grind metal from a reclaimer bucket . the bucket was resting on the edge of the shop table . it fell from the table & the grinder struck his right hand .
employee was decending from ladder and his foot slid down bottom two rungs and twisted his knee when his foot hit the floor
employee was lying on his back under the primary crusher mcc drilling with a cordless drill . the drill `` caught '' , causing the drill to spin out of his hands , striking him in the face .
employee's partner , while using the woma spray gun , lost control of it when spraying and gun flew out of his hand striking employee on left elbow .
while removing decking prior to removing standard crusher , ee fell through opening . ee was not at his assigned work station .
employee was preparing to pull longwall sheild when a section of roof fell from between shield # 99 and # 100 striking him on the inside of his left ankle , bruising it .
was pulling conveyor chain ( face ) back together with shear when a f-bar broke sending a hook toward the headgate and striking accident victim .
elevator at mcmahon portal when the elevator landed at the top the doors would not open . starting at 12:50 am and were opened at 1:40am . a door fault was found and repaired .
employee was cleaning out grizzly at main plant with pick ; a piece of rock broke off and hit himin the left arm .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st sw submain in the # 8 entry intake escapeway at xc 9+30 . this was in a slip area . the fall measured 30 ' x 30 ' x 8 ' . some 9 ' cable bolts were in the intersection , but were pulled out or came out with the rock . visible slips and wet soft bottoms that is present will require more support , such as cribs , timbers and prop-setters .
ee states that after working a shift , that included changing take-up rolls , his back began to hurt . ee did not notice any specific incident that caused an injury . his back did not begin to hur t until after the ee had been home for several hours .
a small area of smouldering coal was discovered on the back side of the primary coal pile . the smouldering coal was dug out and extinguished by 9:23 a.m. the same day .
tighting valve on saddle , felt a eye irritation with left eye , took off glasses and gloves rubbed eye , washed out eye and went back to work . woke up next morning 8/7/07 with swollen upper left eye lid . reported injury to foreman on 8/7/07 .
employee says he was digging a stuck boulder in muck pile . the loader bucket popped over the top of it when he curled it back causing loader to lurch forward hitting muck pile jarring employee . this caused a pain in his lower back and legs . mri on 6/19/13 shows 2 herniated discs . evaluation of injury and surgeons is taking place . lost-time status effective 6/24/2013 .
employee was cleaning out chute of the c 0 3 belt line while doing that his back froze up and started to hurt
owner of j & p equipment cleaning was working on a steam cleaning engine when one of his employees noticed that he was slumped over the engine . this is still under investgation by msha .
ee alleges while at work doing her normal work activities , running scalehouse for the quarry shestarted having pain in her right arm and shoulder .
employee exiting manlift ; door came down and struck his back .
as ee crawled out of the moly cells , he looked up to get out and a piece of grating used to block the ladder swung and the corner hit him on the lip .
ee was traveling in mill building elevator when it stopped at 1:40am and would not move . ee was extracted from mill elevator at 3:20am . thyssen krupp elevator technician determined fault to be caused by blown fuse .
ee was chocking wheels of a radial stacker conveyor belt with a 1 ' x 1 ' x 3 ' wood chock to prevent movement of the conveyor belt . while lifting and placing chock , ee crushed lt index finger be tween chock and conveyor frame .
as the ee was descending a ladder , his foot missed the last rung , causing pain to his left knee . became aware of medical treatment 5-18-05 .
operator was traveling inby on a brookville locomotive with two full cars . the track switch at 36 wall on the east mains haulage had been left for the curve causing the trip to enter the switch . the motorman was unable to stop the trip and struck his head on an 8 '' plastic waterline that runs parallel to the main line haulage .
salaried parts runner was moving two hydraulic pumps on a two wheeled hand cart with another employee . ee planted his left leg to push pumps up onto cart and felt his left knee rip and tear . torn medial minicus ( left knee )
1st rt section during the installation & movement of a 6 '' water line ee stated he felt pain in his left lower back , later claimed during the shift pain developed in his left leg as well
worker was standing on the 4th step of an 8 foot step ladder . he was moving some bars in a grizzley and hit his thumb with a 4 lb sledge hammer . he lost his balance and he fell and landed on his left elbow and the left side of his face . the fall resulted in a broken elbow and a fracture in the bone under his eye .
hanson was notified that employee was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome , which the physician determined it was probably work related .
unintentional roof fall . 6-north - cross-cut between # 5 & # 6 entry , at # 34 intersection off the conveyor belt entry . fall approx 16 ' long , 15 ' wide & up to 4'-5 ' high ( above the 4 ' roof bolts ) . area began falling out around bolts on feb 2 , 2005 but now became reportable on 2-18-05. no passage or ventilation affected .
ee was taking roller off of rope line , it slipped out of his hands . he caught roller with left hand , straining shoulder . he has had trouble with shoulder before . dr dx : shoulder impingment due to repetitive trauma . mri showed no clinical relavance , no tear only impingement . turned in late due to lateness of mri rpt and dr. dx . - received 4-17-00 .
the east finley elevator was down for more than 30 minutes with people on the elevator . there was no damage to the elevator . the elevator outage was caused by the limit switch for the governor rope - had tripped because the new rope had stretched .
ee picked up 5 gallon pail - it slipped out of his hand , dropping on left instep .
ee was riding in a manbus on west track , the manbus ran into a parked shield car resulting in a fracture to his mid left finger .
the miner was stepping down from the back of a mmu bulk truck # 126. his foot slipped off the icc bumper and fell to ground . the miner tried to cushion his fall by reaching with his right hand and broke his wrist .
a roof fall measuring 6 ' high 30 ' long & 20 ' wide fell in the return netural 13 breaks out by the co # 4 head-drive . the roof was laminated shale with multiple mountain seams . no injuries to me n or machine occured .
ee jumped down from his loader and twisted his ankle .
ee was moving concrete tank out of building when he alleges he strained his groin while pushing against the tank . began missing work on 1/8/03 .
steam caused from hot pellets hitting water contacted ee face and resulted in 1st and 2nd degree burns .
a roof fall occured in the south sub main , # 8 entry , # 11 crosscut , 730 ' station . the fall was approximately 25 ' long , 25 ' wide and 8 ' tall . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall did not affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage to equipment .
when drilling , the driller needs to lift drill rods an place on drill mast to add length , when driller was doing this he felt what he thought was a muscle `` tweek '' . this feeling did not improve , went to doctor and found out he had a hernia .
while the employee was dismounting a haul truck he lost his footing and slipped off the truck running his hand along the handrail and getting his right lower palm caught on a bolt resulting in a lacertation to the lower section of the right palm .
employee was moving slusher bucket . he slipped and fell , his right hand was caught between rib and bucket . the bucket smashed his finger right ring finger .
employee was walking under a lead rougher cell , when he straightened up he hit his hard hat on a piece of angle iron . the jolt hurt his back . he left work on the 9th of october on r & r went t o a doctor & didn't come back to work on october 17th .
the ee was hanging pipe with a chain . the pipe slipped off the forks of the forklift and pinched his finger between the pipe and the chain .
ee was removing the discharge line from a pump . when the victrolic coupling was removed scaldingwater sprayed on his hands causing second degreeburns .
employee was in the process of mapping a blast against backfill in the 1-49545. ee checking drill holes & he got dust particles in his rt . eye .
ee was attempting to climb out of a 582 scoop in # 46 wall crosscut e-14 section . he bumped against loose coal/rock rib causing it to fall and strike him on the upper back and neck .
ee was walking down sidehill and slipped twisting her ankle .
ee ( # 2 car driver ) was operating a shuttle car . the car became stuck on the feeder . his coworker # 1 car driver was also stuck . the # 1 car driver got on the 488 scoop and began to clean the loo se coal from the dumping point . not realizing that there were an oxygen and acetylene tank in the scoop bucket , he pushed them into the feeder . the acetylene tank exploded .
hoist down from 11:30 am to 4:30 pm . coil in main contactor and surge suppriss burnt . repaired approximately 5:00 pm . hoist down second time from 6:15 to 4:30 am in coil in main rectifier . no injuries reported as a result of this hoist being down .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at survey station 8022 , 50 & 38 cross out of # 2 entry return of west mains . the fall had no effects on ventilation the area was dangered off and suppo rted at all approaches .
the mech was welding a plate on the rear of a haul truck . another ee was taping the plate into place when the hammer slipped striking the top of the mechanic's head . the mech finished the sh ift with little complaint . that evening he decided to seek medical attention . the result was a slight concussion . ee was off 8/6/02 and returned 8/7/02 .
while stringing out new electrical cables between the ccd motor control center and the sulphate plant , ee stepped on a loose rock and twisted his ankle .
employee was using a prybar to move a heavy object when the prybar slipped and pinched his right thumb against a concrete wall directly behind him .
ee was using a rail pick to clean out ballast from between ties under the rail to remove the tie plate . while doing so the ee accidently hit the rail with pick causing it to chip and a piece of the pick entered the ee's left cheek just under the skin .
unplanned brush fire , lasting longer than 30 mins , ignited by overhead powerline .
ee stated that he was operating no . 23 scoop with the float lever in the locked position . he stated that the float lever , which is spring loaded , popped out of the locked position catching the index , middle and ring fingers of his right hand between the float lever and the steering lever .
ee was spliting a slab of sandstone using a 4 lb . hammer and stone chisel when he inadvertently missed the chisel head and struck his left thumb causing a contusion to his thumb . ee was assigned a modified work activity for 3 days then returned to regular job .
during weekly examination a roof fall was founmd at brk . 44 along the 4 north intake at ss # 12626. the roof fall measured 90 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7-25 ' high . there were no injuries opr property damage reported . the fall occurred 4500 ' outby the working section .
ee was tightening the hammer valve when the valve went loose thrusting ee forward smashing her finger in between bar & cement line
ee was riding in the back of a mantrip on 59w ramp going to 61w . the road was rought & he wasbounced around he strained left shoulder he retd to towrk lite duty for 1 day
the ee states he was carrying a battery ( 45-50 lbs . ) and stumbled , losing the grip in his right hand and caught the full weight with his left hand causing a sprained left shoulder .
this employee felt some discomfort to his left knee . he went to see the dr and the dr put him on some anti-inflamatories and tylenol ; no light duity needed . this employee had surgery done on 6/21/07 to his knee but he has been on vacation since . this employee has had this time scheduled off since the first of the year . he has come back to work on light duity as of 7-2-07 .
employee was attempting to walk around a puddle of water that had come through the roof and accumulated on the floor , ee slipped on a wet spot that had become slick with lime . ee right knee buckled and twisted . ee requested medical treatment on 6/28/18 .
employee stated was moving a 55 gallon barrel of oil by hand when ee felt something pop in right shoulder . employee stated did not want medical attention , just wanted to document the incident .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the 1n longwall recovery face shield # 119 to shield # 125/1141 ' north . the fall was approx 30 ' long 5 ' wide and approx 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will be cleaned up .
employee was positioning screen cloth on a jci 6x20 screen and twisted / strained his back .
ee was loading bolts , plates glue and straps onto the back of a roof bolter when his left hand struck the sharp edge of a strap , causing a laceration that required 4 stitches .
ee was using a pry bar to put linkage in a shaft on a coal drill , while pulling on prybar , it slipped and struck on the under side of his chin . received a laceration on chin which required nin e stitches to close .
driving the water truck around while watering and cleaning . drove over a bumpy area that caused ee to bounce out of the seat injuring his lower back .
employee was pulling a wrench when strained shoulder . ee completed shift . ee did not report , but put on time slip that ee strained shoulder . went back to work on monday 7-18-6. was changing screens when ee again felt strain . reported injury on 7-20-16 when ee went to chiropractor .
ee was standing beside the continuous miner . as he went to move , he slipped on a piece of rock , falling backwards and to the right , landing on his right shoulder .
ee barring down with scaling bar and bruised right hand .
mechanic was assisting the bobcat operator in removing the bucket . after the pins were released and the operator started to back away , he accidently moved the control the wrong way causing the edge of the bucket to lift . the mechanic wasstill too close and the bucket edge struck his left leg .
bending steel rebar when the wrench slipped and struck him in the mouth .
injured employee was putting the track tension cylinder back on the machine along with the track hoe operation . a chain was used to lower the cylinder in place . the chain was connected to the track hoe bucket . the injured ee had his left hand lying on the cylinder . his hand was caught between the bucket and cylinder .
ee was diagnosed with a `` degenerative rt . knee meniscus tear '' which is work related .
the ee was re-hooking a basket on a cement loading spout . the ee stated that while doing so , he experienced pain in his left chest area .
ee was descending ladder on classifier when he twisted body , causing strain of left shoulder .
the ee and 4 other ee's were positioning a piece of metal to be welded onto the conveyor belt tailpiece dump box . the metal slipped and caught the ee's finger between the metal and the tail piece frame . this resulted in a laceration which required sutures .
ee was using a long bar to push build-up off the burner pipe , pipe slipped injuring his lower back .
ee diagnosed with occupational carpal tunnel syndrome on 10.5.16. treatment is pending at this time .
on the above date , ee was working on the company 610 scoop checking permissibility . he had finished adjusting the brakes and was putting the shield back on . as he pulled the shield , he felt a sharp pain in his lower abdomen . he went to the doctor on monday and was diagnosed with a hernia .
ee was carrying a piece of plate and stepped through a hole .
ee was walking on crusted snow when his leg fell through the crust and he hyperextended his knee .
while loading cinder block into the scoop bucketat the end of the track on the 012-0 mmu ee felta sudden pain in his lower back . he worked until8/27 ; he returned 8/30 missing 3 days work .
ee was using a hammer to chip a stone . right arm became sore from the repetitive motion . diagnosed with right arm tendonitis . ee did not seek medical treatment until 6/8/04 .
employee works as a scoop/utility man . he was loading supplies and was lifting a bundles of roof bolt resin off of a pallet and loading it into the scoop bucket and felt a strain in his lower abdomen . he repetitively is lifting and carring material every day . he was taken off work 04/08/2008 for a hernia .
repairing a metal stopping between # 1 and # 2 entry at 36 xc on longwall 60 and the roof behind the longwall shields . this was the first fall of a new face and the gust of air created caused the metal stopping to fall , knocking the metal stopping over . injured was knocked into a pump-able crib and sustained a concussion and cervical strain .
ee walking from the gyp shack to ball sorting area , slipped on the ice covering the ground and twisted right knee . ground has been covered with ice for some time .
was pulling a hydrolic line of a 980 g cat loader . the line was under pressure . when the line came off , the fluid came out and lacerated lip . the line was going to brake accumulator . machine was off . the brake pedal should have been pumped to bleed pressure .
employee was using bloomfield jack . his hand slipped off handle . jack struck him in right jaw . employee did not go to dr. informed office 4/17/00 of appt . at dentist on 4-20-00 .
employee states he was lifting trash can ( +50 # ) and felt pain in back . ( has history of back pain ) he went to clinic on 7-6-04 and was given rx medicine and placed on modified duty .
workers were moving a floatation pontoon with a trackhoe and as they were setting it down the employee grabbed it to steady the position . the pontoon swung and bumped him on the shin of his right leg causing a contusion .
ee was coming down a ladder off the plant - was on the bottom step & his foot slipped on a rock and his knee hit a piece of steel on plant .
ee was stacking 6 '' hollow concrete blocks , ee turned with a block in his hand when he suddenly felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
ee was welding in the bed of a grout truck box when he was flashed from the automatic track welder , causing flash burns to both eyes . he saw dr. on 5-7-03 , then told his supervisor about it la ter . dr. said he could with no restrictions beginning 5-12-03 .
as ee was dismounting from the dozer in the rain . his foot slipped on the tracks causing him to fall . his left leg became lodged between the track-rail and the blade pusharm . his momentum carr ied him over the isde of the pusharm . his leg supported his weight , breaking the fall but caused the knee to be twisted , causing the injury . he was taken to ee . s family .
the employee was using a band saw to cut a steel `` h '' beam . when the employee approached to move the completed piece it fell on his right foot , resulting in a contusion to the top of the right foot .
kiln gk3 pushed due to lack of fuel to calciner . drive belt for calciner coal feeder broke at 4:15 am . cntrl rm opr received an alarm for coal feeder speed 40 sec after the belt broke . lack of fuel caused kiln to push ( rush hot feed thru kiln ) and hot material went to the clinker conveyor system . diverter gate was opened too late to avoid burning belts .
on 10/15 ee notified of leaving er & due to sciatica . after having pain on 10/15 while outside of work ee believes it is related to near miss on 10/11 . no previous indication of any injury or pain leads worker's compensation to investigate , but no determination made yet . interim report is filed to meet 10 working day req until determination made .
maint . was rebuilding tornado crushed , while replacing the breaker rings employee sprained his wrist .
an excavator operator was cleaning out and sump when the tooth of the bucket ruptured the pipeline . the excavator was out off and the gas company was immediately watified . this accident occurred off of mine and permitted property .
ee were working on # 13 ball mill installing shell liners . he was crawling thru the discharge trunion to enter the mill when dirt came from over head into his left eye . flushed eyes and went home for night . ee fell asleep . when he woke up he felt irritation . went to urgent care and physician stated debris was in eye . physician wanted ee to take night off .
while loading waterline couplers he had his right hand on top of crate when a metal fire valve rolled off top shelf , smashing middle finger . ***stitches***
ee was operating a scoop recovering belt materials , scoop became entangled with the life line and ee did not see that it was caught . he moved forward until the rope streched so tight it broke sending a cone flying and striking him on the left shoulder . ee started losing time on 8/4/08 .
shuttlecar cable struck employee on the leg . medical treatment injury
ee was sliding metal platforms into a bucket of a loader , when sliding the second one in , it caught and twisted backward causing the finger to get pinched between the platforms . he received sutures to his finger .
miner struck in l index finger by flying debris
ee was loading trucks with rock & was returning to pile to reload bucket when a tooth on bucket caught a large rock causing the loader to stop hard . this in return jarred his back .
when ee finished hammering the spad up , a rock fell & hit ee on the bridge of the nose . ee stopped & checked the roof . then he hung the plum bob . while he was shining his light on the line another rock fell down and hit ee on back of hard hat . he then ran 25 ' or so and looked back and checked the roof .
ee cut finger while changing motor on shuttle car .
at 7:30 am during preshift examanation a rock fall was found on # 3 belt line . at spad # 852 the fall measured 6 ft. thick by 18 ft. wide by 80 ft. long .
ee diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome on 8.22.16. treatment is pending
ee was dragging line curtain back out of place to hang up on rib to keep curtain out of the way . he had put one end of the curtain on rib , when he went to step over curtain laying on the floor he over extended his right leg and he turned his right ankle . the injury was diagnosed as a strain and later a possible fracture .
while shoveling material from under the conveyor the ee stated that the shovel came into contact with a return roller and subsequntly the ee came into contact with the same roller .
ee was welding on a chute at the plant a hot piece of slag went into his boot and lodged below his ankle causing a burn .
the illnes was reported to this office on 4-28. the employee stated she first noticed the pain on 3-27 on her left side . she states she had so much pain on her left side she found it very di fficult to grasp items . the pain lessened with less use . she went to the dr for treatment , thinking she had pulled a muscle . the dr informed her she had carpal tunnel in her right hand causi
plant operator was clearing the grizzly bars one foot slipped between and banged his knee . he continued work for the day . he informed management of his injury on 1/8/09 . dr determined it was probably a sprain . he did physical therapy was told by dr that his planned vacation would be sufficient recuperation . after vac . he started to miss work . possible surgery required
piece of rock slid off miner , hitting ee on right side of leg .
the employee was rockdusting an entry with a power duster . he rockdusted the roof and a piece of stone fell out of the roof striking his hand .
setting impact idler , caught finger between impact idler and structural steel brace . fracture to right ringfinger . required sutures
ee was moving a large piece of stone into position to be split . the stone slipped from his grasp and struck his left leg 3 inches below his knee causing a laceration . he received serveral stitches and returned to full work capasity on 7/16/07 .
while cleaning the screen box for tank 65 , ee felt something burning on his foot . he completed the task and reported to medical where he was diagnosed with a chemical burn and was given first aid treatment . he was later given a topical antibiotic prescription medication which makes this a medical treatment case .
ee on # 1 belt was working with another ee , the victum was in a pinch point area and was struck by battery operated 4-wheeler , pinning ee against rib and mantrip .
ee removing bit from hammer while hanging from jib about 1 foot from ground . ee was turning bit off of hammer when the bit let go and wedged ee finger between bit and ground .
employee was installing new monogoggle sign in the area . as he hit the sign with the hammer , it popped off and hit employee on the forehead .
employee working in calciner unit operating a cordless circular saw to build wooden forms in preparation for guniting . as he was making a miter cut on 3/4 '' piece of plywood @ 2 '' x8 '' long , the saw blade came in contact with left index finger cutting the tip off .
the heavy equipment operator ( heo ) was attempting to lift a dragline trail cable off the hooks on dragline 79 when he felt a sharp pain in his right bicep .
employee complained of right shoulder pain and was sent for an mri which revealed chronic degenerative changes of the glenoid labrum and stable degenerative tear inferior glenoid labrum . this is being reported as an occupational illness due to repeated trauma . employee was off work 08/19/2013 for same condition .
windborne debris caused minor irritation to the right eye during land clearing operations which resulted in medical treatment and a prescription for eye drops to be issued .
employee was cleaning the resevior pumphouse . he was moving 2 gallon buckets partially filled with stone . after moving 3rd bucket , he experienced intense abdominal pain . had co-worker contact supervisor .
ee was lifting rocks out of a jaw crusher and strained his back . worker treated at his chiropractor . crusher did not work on 12/3/13 and 12/4/13 because of a snow storm .
employee has been diagnosed with occupational pnemoconiosis
the fall of ground occurred at approximately 12:30pm in the 3920 sfw travel way area . the ground fall was approximately 6 ' in width 5 ' in length and 3 ' in depth . the drift is approximately 15 ' wide by 15 ' tall . it was determined that some roof bolts in the area had corroded over time and gave way . there were no injuries , equipment damage , change in ventilation , or entrapment .
a roof fall occurred 2 breaks inby spad 184 in the # 6 and & entry . the fall in # 6 is 80 foot long 14 feet wide and 8 feet thick . the fall in # 7 is 100 feet long , 20 ft wide and 9 ft thick .
ee was carrying a hyd.pump in the tool room when he felt a pain in his lower back .
ee was chiseling a piece of tock when a metal piece from the chisel broke off into ee's leg .
employee hit elbow against bit tray on roof bolter . he has been taken off work for terapy for the tendon in his right elbow . employee started missing work 8/10/04 .
employee was drilling a raise round with stoper drill and had drilled all of round except for 3 holes when rock fell out of back striking him in right shin bone . he was taken to hospital and x-rayed and released back to full work status .
ee was hooking air compressor to back of pickup truck ; strained lower back & right leg while lifting compressor .
ie stated that while walking down the travelway of the 1st main west they stepped in some dust that had a rock underneath causing them to roll an ankle . ee was diagnosed with a sprained ankle . ee was instructed to follow up with the dr. on 11/13/17 . ee attended the follow up examination and was placed in a walking boot and taken off work at that time .
after opening and closing some valves ee felt a throbbing pain in his left shoulder . ee placed on restricted duty .
ee has bilaterial cts . first shift missed-7-18-01 .
employee driving a 773b rock truck . while the truck was being loaded with stone , the trackhoe bucket and stone jarred the truck , causing employee to experience neck and shoulder pain .
an unplanned roof fall has occurred on # 2 section 50 ' inby # 1409 in the left return 1 brk . outby feeder . fall was approx . 120 ' long x 19 ' wide x 9 ' high , no injuries and the fall did not affect ventilation or travel ways
report filed to abate 9087305. bits of 12cm11 miner hit an old eba 6.5 ( 1981 ) while cleaning between third and fourth crosscut at 235 block at rehab area . resulted in sudden release of pressure when cylinder ruptured . there was no charring or residue on the miner or in the entry to indicate ignition occurred . after investigating , msha & the operator agreed it was not an ignition .
north mains , face area : the employee was installing a roof bolt in a high top area & a rock ( ~3 ' x 2 ' x 2 '' thick ) fell without warning & struck his head . he finished his shift & the next morni ng decided that an examination by a physician was needed .
while pulling open kiln hood employee was struck when a chain come-a-long popped loose and struck ee in the abdomen .
ee was using a sledge hammer to chip frozen material from a mud bin . ee stated that he had lower back pain at the end of his shift .
ee was clearing a cardox port with a pipe and a hammer . as the ee struck the end of the pipe with his left hand , his right hand was caught in a pinch point between the pipe and the cardox collar . as a result , his right index finger suffered a laceration which required 8 stitches .
an employee and a contractor were welding inside a crusher . after the shift , the employee noticed that his eyes were stinging . his eyes were flash burned by the exposure to the other welder ' s arc .
while folding forks on backhoe one came unpinnedand caught employee's left middle finger betweenfork and concrete shop floor . this caused a cut in finger which required 5 stitches .
report only , minor bruising to right shoulder occurred due to a fall . ee returned to full duty without restrictions . ee was taken to the hospital as a precaution . the ee fell while walking on a loader tire , instead of using the equipment ladder .
a roof fall in the 2 main north x-cut # 16 in # 7 entry measuring 50 ' x 19'x 6 ' . the area was mined in oct of 2000 and supported with 6 ' tension rebar roof bolts . there was an undetected slip .
as ee was loading cutter blades , he received a laceration to right index finger .
while hanging miner cable felt pain in back . ee did not loose any wages until 2-18-02 .
jackhammering in gypsum area hole and slipped on a board trying to avoid cement debris . there w ere fine clinkers on the board causing the slide .
ee stated that he was removing a grease fitting on an eimco continuous miner when the fitting broke free striking the left lens of his safety glasses . he received a laceration around his left eye requiring stitches and a scratched cornea .
an unintentional was discovered on grassy creek mains - # 8 entry at spad 10513. fall dimensions are approximately 18 ' wide x 20'long x 7'high . there were no injuries associated with this inci dent .
while stepping off of a ladder ee stepped onto a small rock that was at the base of loose material on the ground causing ee's foot to roll . first aid was provided at the scene and ee was taken for follow up medical evaluation .
ee was startin a compressor using the pull-rope . the compressor pulled back in stroke mode while the ee was holding the pull-rope causing his hand to strike the compressor , which resulted in a n injury to his right ring finger . the compressor is on the lubrication truck .
ee was using the burner on a piece of curbing . the regulator for the fuel oil came loose , ee attempted to fit it , and the torch slipped across his hand .
ee was using a pen knife to cut nylon draw bands , pulling the knife towards him as he cut thru the band . the force drove the knife into his thumb cutting his tendon , surgery scheduled on 6-1-0 1 .
employee stated , was roof bolting in 5r c/c when struck by loose rock which fell during the bolting cycle . rock impacted personal canopy and then pushed employee to ground . ee was transported to surface by emts and taken to rgh er . ee was treated and released but returned to doctor 2 days later and is away from work until 6-3-16
ee was operating a roof bolter , they had just finished pinning a place and backed the bolter outhe removed his hard hat to wipe off sweat off his head when a small piece of top coal fell cau sing small laceration to his head . he received 2 stitches .
ee was pulling a fuel hose out to fuel the rock crusher , when he sprained the middle of his back .
a roof fall was found at xcut # 47 in the # 4 entry of south mains a. the fall was approx . 30 feet long , 18 feet wide , and 9 feet high . area was bolted with install iii bolts resin assisted . the area was screened and we used bacon straps . fell above anchorage point . this area is not normally traveled .
employee suffered heart failure due to natural causes . investigation showed no exertion prior to the event . employee was discussing project assignments with other crew members when collapse occured . no tools or equipment were in use at the time of the collapse . the employee did not survive .
injured was walking around a diesel mantrip doing a pre-operational inspection and slipped on a piece of coal . he fell and landed on his right hand fracturing it .
working on housekeeping in the east zeno pit with a shovel when a object on the floor was struck and he jammed his wrist .
ee was hammering a bolt on a gear box at the rewash plant , a piece of the hammer broke off and hit him in the chin , he thought he just cut it and put a bandaid on it . 9-10-08 he reported to another ee ( spanish ) so he could interpret . ee can feel something in his chin and a magnet can pull on the embedded object .
the ee claims he struck his head against something while assisting co-workers install discharge line . upon investigation by mine management it was determined no work related injury occurred & compensation benefits denied . please refer to the attached letter .
ee was roof bolting in 8 right entry and was putting the last outside bolt in . he just had struck the steel in the pot and a rock fell striking his right hand .
ee placed his right hand on the tailgate to bend over to see what was keeping the tailgate from closing . at this time , the tailgate closed , smashing his right middle finger causing a laceration that required suturing .
employee slipped and fell from a service truck as ee was unloading wear strips for a dozer blade . ee suffered a laceration to left hand that required stiches .
approximately 1:05 pm smoke was noticed in an area not yet mined . upon investigation it was found to be a brush fire of unknown origin . 911 was called so fire department persons could respond to extinguish the fire . the wv department of forestry also responded . the incident remains under investigation . the msha hot-line was used .
35'l x 19 ' w x 7 ' h. fall on # 2 section # 5 entry near spad 2805. joy 14cm iner covered . fall on idle shift . agencies notified .
employee riding on back seat of mantrip . jacket hood caught on belt guard at underpass . employee was pulled off slow moving mantrip . went to emergency room , returned to work with no restrictions . saw dr. on april 20 complaining of tingling in left hip and moderate shoulder pain . taken off work on 4-20-2011 , presently scheduled for an mri .
ee was using cable spooler to reclaim matrix coaxial cable . he was leveling the cable as it was being spooled on the reel . when the cable reached the coupling it pulled the cable out of his hand and through the reel striking him on the right hand , fracturing his small finger .
ee was welding on a discharge chute of a conveyor at night the wind was blowing . he felt something in his eye but feeling went away . he was wearing safety glasses . he was taken to eye clinic after he came to work next day complaining of pain . a piece of metal was removed from surface of left eye . no lost time was incurred .
pushing dents out of a cyclone ( cone shaped ) with a port-a-power , the port-a-power came loose and hit ee in the mouth .
east 1 right , block 7 entry 11 3-way , mmu 007 , worked out area . 20 ft long x 18 ft wide x 10 ft high . type of support : cable bolts , 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , roof mats . fall dangered off , additiona l roof support installed around fall .
electrical failure causing ignition of combustable material . fire damage to cab & rear engine compartment areas . total fire time 60 mins .
alleges he may have hurt his lower back while removing rock from conveyor belt . reported 9/29/03 he was shoveling in his driveway on 9/28/03 when he felt pain in his lower back and sought medi cal help .
a roof fall has occurred in the # 7 entry 50 ' outby the face at spad 9792. area of fall 60 ' x 19 ' x 35 '' - 50 '' . type support 42 '' resin bolts .
at approximately 8:55am , the shindler elevator became inoperable . the vfd drive was indicating a low line power fault . a loose connection was found on the drive transformer and was repaired . the elevator was back in operation around 2pm .
ee stated that while carrying a section of steelroof mesh he stepped on a `` chunk '' and jarred hisback .
ee was refueling grader , when he was climbing down his foot slipped off step and he was tangled in hose causing him to fall backwards onto ground landing on his right hip , then to right shoulder .
ee was driving off road truck and backed under the backhoe bucket to get loaded he did not stop when the bh operator blew the horn and the bh operator had to stop the truck with the bucket . he said this made his back hurt .
as he was walking through the # 36 crosscut on the longwall belt , he slipped in a tire track & felt pain in his rt . knee . he continued to work until 3/27/06 , at this time he was diagnosed with a torn ligament .
the ee ( miner ) was loading prill into face round with a prill pot . walking toward the prill pot and weld on top of prill pot came loose and blew prill into his face , a lot of prill .
ee was installing huck bolts under a screen & coal dust entered his eye under safety glasses .
ee was located 5 break inby 3a head trimming clips from a flexco splice in the section conveyor belt , using a utility ( razor ) knife , when the knife slipped striking his right hand between the thumb and index finger restulting sin a laceration requiring 3 sutures . degree 3 class 10
injured was with crew loading belt structure into scoop bucket . when ee twisted his body his foot remained stuck in approx . 8 '' of mud , twisting his left knee .
while attempting to assist the loading of 4 x 8 doka forms the employee placed his hand near the form to free it . his finger was pinched between the two forms and required sutures .
ee called me @ 7:40am and reported to me that he came into work @ the quarry @ 6:30am . he stated that he began cranking the water pump and , immediately , pain shot into the lower left side of his back . ee went to see dr. @ 3:30pm on the same days of his injury .
at approximately 2:15 am the tail gate travelway of the longwall was observed to be impassable by roof screens that were filled with rock from the immediate roof and some of the rock from the immediate roof had fallen on the mine floor . the area involved was approximately 60 feet long . this is a tail gate closure .
employee stated while loosening packing gland on shuttle car , during repair , struck hand againstsharp metal .
while assisting the mechanic , ee was manually turning the drum on the 88b dragline so the mechanic could check the linings and he said he felt a pop in his right shoulder and arm area .
ee and co-worker were bolting in the 2nd cut of the # 4 entry . the power on the roof bolter went off and ee walked to the power center to reset the breaker . upon returning to the roof bolter ee stopped at the offside dust box and removed hisgloves to clean his glasses . at this point he was struck by a piece of draw rock on his unprotected hand . he sustained a fracture to ring finger
alledged incident was to have occurred while this employee was handling 5-gallon oil cans , he claims to have heard a `` pop '' in his right shoulder . cause if injury if occurred was overexertion . compliance with rules/regs was not a factor , protective equip not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equip/systems not a factor
ee was under an auger ont he deck of a low boy preparing for transportation . he hard hat fell off . when bending down and retriving the hard hat . he turned slightly while coming back up and bum ped his head causing a 1 inch laeration . he was transported to hosptial where the dr glued the cut together .
injured employee accidently turned on portable grinder and his left thumb came in contact with the turning grinding disc .
ee was putting the belly pan back on the miner when the lifting eye broke off letting the belly pan drop approx . 16 '' landing on the employees legs .
unintentional roof fall @ spad # 1291 . 20 ' ( l ) x 20 ' ( w ) x 5 ' ( h ) .
a roof fall occurred inthe hiawatha seam at cross cut no.16 in the no.3 entry . the fall is about5'high , 18'wide , & 10 ' long
this employee was on the bottom of the quarry and asked for an oil can . an employee from the top line dropped a can . the employee catching it hit a rough edge on the can and cut the tip of his thumb . employee was given 1st aid on ledge but requested to go to the doctor on 4/16/04 after he super glued the cut . follow up appt . is on 04/27/04
employee was taking grease fitting out of adjustment cylinder for tailpulley & pressure in cylinder shot grease fitting into his left hand between index & middle finger causing puncture wound .
the ee was taking hoses off the monorail on the old l-wall when he felt lower back pain .
ee slipped and fell on icy walkway , fell and twisted his knee .
employee stated while roof bolting he was removing steel from the roof . his shoulder which had been bothering him started hurting more intensely . he continue to work till 9-30-2009 when he was taken off work by his doctor . mri was perform on shoulder which showed tendinopathy ( tendinitis ) , which is tendon inflammation . inflammation- illness .
ee sprained his back while reaching to catch himself after losing his balance when debris entered his face and underneath his safety glasses . this happened while using a pressure washer to clean a 988f cat loader .
a mill operator suffered for heat exhaustion . he was in process of opening a water treatment valve when symptoms occurred . the employee reported to the onsite physician assistant where he was re-hydrated intravenously . he was sent offsite for further medical evaluation .
ee was trying to remove grizzly bar from stacker belt . turned on magnet to help lift from belt . two middle fingers got caught between magnet and bar . ee was wearing gloves but tip of middle finger was amputated and finger was broken .
left ankle turned under stepping down from hammermill loading step , felt something `` snap '' . next morning ankle was swollen & painful - sought medical attention at that time .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee .
ee was digging in a brick pile removing brick and a brick was hung up and when it broke loose he blocked it with his arm to keep it from hitting his head and caused abrasion on his arm .
ee was helping move a skid of roof bolt plates off a bundle of roof bolts . the skid rolled causing a laceration by the steel banding .
employee was using a 4 ' pry bar to move toe plate into place to be welded . the pry bar slipped off the piece of channel and struck the grating the man was standing on . the blow dislodged the g rating causing the man to fall . the employee sustained bruising to his liver and spleen , fractures to both shoulder , pelvis and tail bone .
during morning hoist inspection it was noted that the hoist would not respond to control commands . investigation indicated that the computer that controls the hoist had stopped communicating with the hoist . the computer was rebooted and reconfigured , the hoist re-activated , checked and returned to service by 6:04am .
on 8/16/06 , the injured miner was shoveling mud and rock beside the jaw crusher when the shovel struck a rock covered by mud . the impact of the shovel on the rock twisted his right wrist . the injured miner notified his supervisor on 8/23/06 , notified the company safety director on 8/25/06 , and submitted his inury report form to the company safety director on 8/28/06 .
ee was helping put a track on d11 dozer and had a pry bar holding roller boagie . dozer boagie dropped , pinning ee's right hand to ground by bar . this fractured ee's right little finger and tore fingernail off of right ring finger .
the employee was setting up cable rigging with 1 '' cable and attaching a 1 1/4 '' shackel . the weight of the cable rigging caused a pain in the lower back of the employee when he stood up .
ee was replacing bearings and shim plates in a 3 '' crusher . as ee reached for a plate , the stack shifted and while trying to catch it , ee hand was caught between plate and crusher frame . ee received a laceration to left hand requiring 10 stitches
the mechanic was placing a block under the service truck for repairs . as ee placed the block ee felt a pain in back . ee was seen by a doctor and released with no restrictions . on 10/21/2016 the employee went to the emergency room and was placed on work restrictions that could not be accommodated .
while doing maintenance work on the secondary impact crusher equip . id # p-035 employee was attempting to manually roll hammers from a svedala s250dc crusher into the bucket of a skid steer to take to the scrap dumpster when he caused injury to his right shoulder .
ee was scaling rock when a rock fell striking him on the head and shoulder causing a fractured collar bone and a possible compression fracture .
was feeling faint so i stopped at the bottom of the hill and set my parking brake . i looked up and everything ( color wise ) went real dim the turned black . next thing i knw coworker is asking m e if i was ok. i was in and out until i was sitting in the chair in the office .
ee was shoveling around stacker tail roller , when a loose piece of rock bounced off belt striking ee on the left side of the face and forehead .
employee was attempting to remove the keeper pin on a d-8 cat blade with a 2 pound sledge hammer and a punch . as ee swung the hammer , it glanced off of the punch , hitting ee in the left hand between the thumb and pointer finger . ee sought medical help on 4/13/16 , but there were no fractures . ee returned to the doctor on 4/18/16 and was placed on light duty .
ee stated that he was loading supplies on the railrunner outside the mine . when he bent to pick up a box he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee bent over to help pick up a pump but did not grasp it when he felt pain in his back . employee has missed work previosly with back problems throuhout his mining career .
ee was installing a hand rail . cut a piece of steel with a torch & accidentally leaned against it resulting in 2nd deg burn to right chest area
ee was fixing a flat on rear truck tire 1000-r20when airing tire up leaned over to check tire pressure when sidewall blew out causing the tireto hit him in the upper chest & lower neck area
left side groin area started hurting while flipping a headnut for a crusher .
ee started missing work on 2/8/01 ; he was diagnosed with degenerative joint disease in his rightknee .
while jacking up low tail dolly , jack slipped out and hit ee on side of head near jaw/ear .
6/4/12 at 11:45 a.m. the electricians were called to check out the production hoist # 31 the hoist had `` kicked out '' twice since 9a.n . that morning . the hoist was downed at 11:15 to clean the generator . msha was called at 11:20 to report the hoist was down . msha was called back at 12:45 to report the hoist was back up and running fine .
injured worker was ratcheting a 1.5 ton come-a-long when he felt a pull in his left tricep muscle . later in the day his muscle became sore and started to swell . he went to the doctor and was placed on restrictions . avoid use of left arm until 5/13/09 .
employee was operating caterpillar 665 challenger tractor with a box scraper attached to the back of it . when he backed up to unload the box scraper he ran over a rock that caused the machine to jerk sideways causing his head to jerk to the side . doctor wants mri before returning to duty .
ee was working in the quarry generator room and while attempting to pry a nail out of some wood , the pry bar slipped off the nail head causing some minor back strain as he apparently re-aggravated a pre-existing back problem .
ee was accessing crusher off the catwalk next to the crusher . ee stepped up approximately 6 '' above the side of catwalk onto the crusher frame . right foot slipped off causing the right foot to ( wedge ) between the frame of the crusher and the catwalk frame . this action caused the right foot to slip/twist sideways causing the right ankle to break .
employee was lifting rock over on to pan line on the longwall when employee felt pain in lower back .
loosening the closed side setting . his hand was on the hydraulic ram , used to make the adjustment . it retracted , pinching his lt ring finger with 1300 psi of pressure .
ee was cleaning debris out of a new sump ( houskeeping ) and slipped . he reached out to grab something to keep from falling , which happened to be expandable metal . the edge of the metal caused lacerations to two fingers on the right hand .
ee was closing door on end loader , when door closed his hand was in door frame and door closed on middle finger cutting it . resulting in laceration requiring stitches .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the coalburg mine at brk . spad # 524 , on belt # 18 brk . # 27. the fall measured approx.80 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7 ' high . no injuries were reported .
reported : he was helping his coworker attempt to unstop the suction on a boom of the flecher roof bolter . he laid his left hand on the short-arm of the bolter , the other hand was pulling off the suction hose from beneath the drill box . the coworker raised the boom , the movement caused the victims finger to be caught between the short-arm and the machine frame , restuling in a cut .
the ee was bending a roof bolt while it was in the hole when he felt pain in his lower back . the ee began loosing time as of 8/20/09 .
the supervisor of the miner section found a roof fall that was above the anchor point of the roof bolts in an `` ouby '' area of the mine . the fall was approx . 15 ' wide , 30 ' long and approx . 4 ' high . the roof bolts used in this area were 42 '' mechanical that were installed 20+ years ago . the fall did not impede travel or ventilation .
he was removing a return roller from the sandstacker . he was using a 9 ' piece of pipe to push up on the belt in order to take the down pressure off the roller so it could be lifted out of the brackets . he pushed up on the pipe and felt a sharp pain in his right arm between the elbow and shoulder .
using a backhoe to clean mud , clay & rock out of raised bed of articulated haul truck ... working backhoe bucket near midsection of bed ... glob of mud fell from the side of the inner bed striking backhoe bucket ... rock that was part of the glob of material rolled over the bucket stricking the web of ee's left hand resulting in seven ( 7 ) stiches ... no lost time or change of duties
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the galatia north 5 west headgate # 2 @ 5425 west . the fall was 33 ' long x 18 ' wide by 7 - 8 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of mine rs . the fall will be cleaned up .
the unwitnessed ee stated that when he was lifting a roll of fabric , he mis-stepped and twisted his back . he was taken to the hospital , received tx and injectable meds and scrips . he failed to show up 2 days later for follow-up visit with dr. and we discovered that he had taken employment with another employer and denied any problem with his back .
ee was leaving the coke mill building using the west man door when he stepped on a 1 '' diameter mill ball ( approximately ) about two steps outside the west door . he lost his balance and fell , partially catching himself with his left wrist and landing on his back . lost time date started 12/18/14 .
sitting on mantrip when a piece of rock fell into his eye .
loading scrap iron for offsite disposal . big piece of metal hit ee's left ring finger . ee came in at 9:15 a.m. on 1/19/16 , made a doctor's appointment at seneca family practice . they said ee fractured left ring finger but will be able to return to work immediately .
ee hopped off front tire she had been standing on to put antifreee in her truck . when touching ground , her back popped and started hurting
ee was washing off the # 5 kiln concrete firing deck . a piece of flat bar metal was leaned up against the kilns doors . vibratioin caused the metal to fall and strike ee on his upper right calf .
ee was walking and did not notice he was standing on ice , the ice was covered with sand . the ice broke and he went down to his shins and jarred his back .
ee sustained noise-induced hearing loss .
ee alleges while hanging an empty 2 inch waterline ee felt pain in ee's lower back . ee has not missed work , ee began working restricted on 4/12/16 . alleged incident is under investigation . due to the reporting deadline , this document is being submitted to comply with reporting criteria until full determination of actual injury and/or incident can be substantiated .
ee was shoveling under conveyors , complained of sore back .
injured was in the process of cleaning out a conveyer chain that had fowled up and gobbed off , injured was removing the gob by hand when gob broke free , freeing up fowled chain when this happe ned conveyer chain caught injured's left hand resulting in the injury .
ee was moving a half full drum of anti-freeze from the shop to a haul truck outisde of the shop to drain anti-freeze from truck into drum . ee was using a set of hand trucks to move drum . drum shifted to right side of hand truck and started to tip over . ee lunged to catch drum and strained lower back .
ee was working on a 289 rock truck when the accident happened . ee was tightening a large nut with a hammer and a chisel when a small piece of metal came off of the nut and struck the ee in the right cheek .
ie was preparing to do maintenance on the a-side scalper screen . ee was entering the screen from the high side . ee foot slipped out causing a hyperextension of left knee . initially a file only . ie received medical treatment on 05/02/2018 .
employee was using a glass beaker in the lab . when she lifted the beaker , the beaker broke and she was cut by the glass on her right thumb . she was given 4 stiches and was given a full work release .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on 6-27-01. distance from the active face was approx 4,500 ' . there were no personal injuries and no equipment was involved . size of fall measured 110 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' . all entrances to fall have been breakered off .
ee was using a pry bar to help change a steering jack on a shuttle car . pry bar slipped letting steering jack fall hitting ee on left index finger causing a cut that required 7 stitches to clo se .
an unplanned roof fall occurred along the # 7 belt in the crosscut from 5 to 6 near spad # 02797. the ventilation was not affected . the fall measured 40'l x 20'w x 48 '' h. all entrances to the fal l will be breakered off & the fall area will not be rehabilitated .
employee was hanging screen on a shield when a piece of slate fell from the roof and struck ee in the right wrist causing a laceration that required 4 sutures .
ee was removing a rock from slope belt and felt pain in his right lower back .
he was raising side compartment of hood on powder truck in order to change fan belts . hood was heave due to mud buildup underneath . he wasn't aware of extra weight of hood ; when attempting t o lift , he encountered more weight than he was able to lift and dropped hood back to its resting place .
# 1 production hoist down electrical 75 % speed switch was out . called msha at 5:05 pm . had to wait for 10 minutes for someone to answer , asked him to make note of this . called msha back at 8:31 to report hoist was running .
ee was driving a wedge into a stopping when a piece of plaster flew into left eye .
employee was shovelling stemming holes when he felt a pain in his back . incident occurred on friday & did not go to dr until monday 8/1/05 .
the ee was walking around the cone crusher and stepped on a pick & he slipped & fell . as he fell forward he hit his nose on the hand rail
parked 30 feet inby the feeder in 9 south mains , went to step out of ram car # 4 to go shovel the feeder and rolled his right ankle upon dismount . no issue with training , ppe , mining machinery or compliance .
employee was hanging highline and pulled something in shoulder .
miner was reaching across conveyor belt , and as the stone was coming up ee reached out and over to grab a small piece ee thought was going to get stuck in the turn . as ee was stretching out across the belt ee felt a pain on the backside of the left knee .
p & p contractor began hanging feeder cable when he felt a strain in his left shoulder .
after drilling a hole , the employee placed a roofbolt on the drill head and as he attempted to push the bolt into the hole , the bolt missed the hole & hit the mine roof causing the roofbolt to bow out and smash his left index finger between the bolt and the drill steel clamps resuting in a laceration which required 7 sutures .
ee was working with crew replacing screen in wet tower . as he pushed the screen into position he felt a twinge in upper rt . thigh/hip caused by pulled or torn hamstring .
installing a pipe on the elevator to the dust collector . the pipe was tack welded in place . ee was pulling on the pipe with a comealong to line it up . when the weld broke and the pipe fell hitting his finger between the pipe and the elevator . 12 stitches .
miner was cutting on feed end of ball finish mill with a torch . a flamable material flashed from cutting slot . the material was unknown . miner received first degree burn and 2 small 2nd degee burns of left side of face .
ee was washing out batch plant area , stepped on 1 '' rubber hose , twisting rt . ankle .
ee stepped on a piece of loose material causing his left ankle to turn causing a bad sprain .
ee was prepping pond to switch tailings line . he lifted 6 '' flex line and felt sharp pain in groin area .
ee was applying a label to a bottle of acetic anhydride . when he dqueezed the bottle it squirted some into his right eye .
employee , in personal car , pulled onto public hwy from non mine property , into the path of an oncoming car , was hit in the side . was initially told by msha a 7000-1 was not required .
employee was helping anchor tailpiece and while holding one of the hydraulic jacks got his right hand caught between the jackbase and roof pad .
employee was removing a shaft mount gear reducer , the gear puller slipped & hit ee on his left knee , causing a laceration requiring stitches .
ee was in the process of tightening a take-up on the surface sampler belt using a wrench . as he was pulling on the wrench he felt pain in his left shoulder . ee continued to work up until 6-17-2014 when he had surgery to repair his shoulder . his first day of work missed due to this incident was 6-17-2014 .
the ee was moving an engine vibration damper to allow access to the front crankshaft seal when he felt something pop in the lower middle portion of his lower back .
employee picked up 50 lb . bag sample , placed on his shoulder and later lowered to chest area and proceeded to truck . later experienced pain in lower left chest area .
he felt pain in his left shoulder while attempting to close a rail car door . he reported the incident but declined medical care at the time . his shoulder still hurt on 12/5/03 and he wanted me dical care . sent to mar monte . possible torn rotator cuff .
ee was dismantling cowles mixer blade from a shaft . ee was using a wrench and socket with ratchet that were not the correct size for the job . the bolt came loose , ee's hand slipped and hit the blade .
ee was pushing boom pins out of a loader using a crib block as a press . the crib block fell over and smashed his left thumb between the boom arm and crib block .
rubber mat on floor of control panel was tripped on and ee sprained ankle .
the employee was operating the longwall shear , while walking along the face the employee stepped onto a shield toe and twisted his right knee . diagnosed with a torn mcl .
was removing belt structure on the f-22 longwall when he stepped in a muddy hole and slipped causing his knee to twist . worked until 10/16/2013 and then started missing work .
replacing screen on siene bend-while replacing screen strained left lower back-worked until 9/18/07
ee was pressure washing transmission core . rubbed eyes with hand .
employee reports lung sensitivity to chemical and requested dr visit . initially seen and released to full duty 6/15/18 . ee sought full work restriction 6/18/18 which was granted by physicians assistant for 5 days 6/18 - 6/22 . employee resigned/retired effective 6/20/18 .
ee was changing by pass filter on the haul truck . ee was laying on side changing filter and overexerted his elbow .
ee was pulling a piece of chain out of the dirt . the chain hung up . he tugged at the chain & it came free & wrapped around his foot , tripping him . he fell into the rib , spraining his shoulder .
ee was helping to fix a broken hand rail on the kiln access ramp . the metal pipe rail slipped and the broken end of the pipe hit the back of his left hand causing a laceration approx . 2 inches in length . the ee was taken to a nearby clinic and received 7 stitches to close the wound . no gloves were being worn at the time of the incident .
employee was doing a routine check on caterpillar 785 rock truck and as he exiting from underneath the truck he hit his left shoulder on a pull hook under the bumper and then hit the side of his head on the bympen . he wearing hand hat .
a roof fall occurred in the 10th east , # 4 entry , at # 46 crosscut . the fall was 20 ' long , 20 ' wide , and 8 ' high . the area was bolted with 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilati on , travel , damage equipment , or cause any injury . this area is not active workings . no one was required to work or travel in this entry .
injured ee and co worker were turning plates over to grind rought edges off of both sides . at the end of the day , he developed soreness in his right wrist .
the crabapple elevator stopped part of the way down in the shaft with employee on board . ee was on the elevator for 55 min . he was not injured as a result of this incident .
while opening the door on a metal dumpster he injured his right index finger on a piece of metal .
ee was operating bolter , putting roof bolt in the hole . he bumped his mouth against the pin board .
while driving haul truck it bagan to bounce going up an incline and hurt his back .
employee was walking toward miner when he stepped on a rock and creeled his ankle and fell on his knee . employee started missing on 07/19/10
unplanned roof fall occurred # 6 belt intake at spad # 1423. fall was approximately 100 ft. length x 20 ft. wide x 8 ft. height . no injuries , entrapment or equipment involved . no ventilation , escapeway , or travelway involved . area was developed 11-30-09. fall was 4600 ft. from face .
emp was using a box cutter to cut a conveyor belt and cut his leg
an unplanned roof fall was discovered on 1/5/2015 . the fall was located in the south west mains 1 in the # 6 entry ; # 17 to 18 block ; inby spad # 995. the fall measured 18'w x 75'l x 6'h . weak laminated shale roof that was layered with sand streaks and deteriorated over time .
setting up drip pan on 2-16 heater . one end of the 6 '' pvc drain pipe fell off the jack stand causing the other end to rise pinching ee left thumb against the drip pan . ee was treated at medical with a steri-strip .
ee was opening the air-lock doors on the way outside the hinges broke causing the door to hit him on the arm & rib cage . he continued to work until 6/18/02 . he went to the dr and was off work until 6/24/02 when he returned back to work .
ee was attempting to cut outer jacked of cable . the cable was stiff due to being cold the knife slipped cutting his right thight .
ee began ee's shift at 3:30 p.m. on 1/11/16 . performing normal duties under normal conditions . ee started out shrink wrapping material . then ee was going to begin loading rock dust into bags . ee bent over to pick up an empty bag , when ee said ee felt a pop/pull in ee's groin .
injured was pulling down a rib . when he pulled the rib down it hit a belt standard that was standing against the rib . the belt standard in turn fell over striking his left foot . he broke a met atarsal bone .
employee was notified by letter dated april 24 , 2003 by the u.s. department of labor and has exercised his rights unter title 30 cfr part 90 .
employee was cleaning the slide on a tail pulley when the take up slid forward and smashed his left hand . his left finger was cut . ee missed three days of working and is now working restricted duty .
while disengaging the clutch , on # 1000 portable water jet , ee contacted a protruding bolt , with his right forearm . ee received a contusion to his right forearm as a result of the contact .
a lowboy mine car was being lifted by a jack . the jack pivoted ; the car came down the rail causing it to go down . the miner was standing out 4 feet inby the car with left foot under rail breaking 3rd & 4th metatarsel bones .
the technician was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome caused by repetitive use of his hands in gripping type motions while performing electrical wiring and other electrical work which requi red surgery on 1-8-04 .
employee was pulling a rock out of tail piece . a rock became fouled at the 4a head drive # 1 tailpiece . employee was pulling the rock out when ee strained/sprained ee's right lower back . ee took self to the hospital to be checked . ee was taken off from work for 2 days . ee returned to work on 02/14/2018 with no restrictions .
ie stepped out of ram car and tripped over a curtain laying on the mine floor . ee stumbled and struck left forearm on a coal rib . ee received a laceration that took 5 sutures to close .
ee presented a letter to lone mountain reporting the results of a chest x ray finding from the national institute for occupational safety and helath . the result noted evidence of pneumoconiosis . he continues to work .
employee went to see company doctor on 2/7/02 and was placed on restricted duty . employee was working on a water tank to raise it up 4 ' and when he lifted a steel pipe , he strained his lower b ack .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 west # 3 mains , 64 crosscut , # 6 entry . the fall measures approx . 25 feet long , 18 ft wide , and 6 ft thick . the area is supported with 5 foot fully grouted resin bolts .
ee was walking to his work station and stepped in a hole , causing him to slip and twist his ankle .
while the employee was operating a fletcher twin boom bolter , ee pushed on the chuck and the drill steel fell and lacerated ee's left elbow .
ee had been working on a steel dock plate which was up on horses being repaired . he picked up on one side of the plate to reposition it and felt a sharp pain in his lower back , right side .
ee noticed build up of debris on conveyor # 10. ee approached conveyor # 10 , climbed on bulldozer in order to reach the bolt , removed an bolt from the guard , swung guard out of the way so ee could reach in & knock debris off w/o shoveling conveyor . arm was caught on pulley , require surgery .
ee was lifting a motor and strained his hand . he did not report until 16 july 2010 .
a roof fall occurred in # 5 entry , # 11 crosscut of the 1st north submain . the fall was 20 ' long , 20 ' wide and 8 ' tall . the area was bolted with 6 ' & 8 ' point anchors . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
employee was cleaning the tower when a chunk of cement came loose and fell striking the bar that he was using to clean . the bar then swung around and hit him in the side of the head . he is complaining of headaches and strained muscles and sought treatment at ohs on 11/17/08 . he is on 10 lb lifting restrictions and sees the doctor again on 11/20/08 .
pulling on fire foot bar to remove converter from a 9733 engine . recd dr note indicating restrictions & hand splint 11/20/00
on 12/5/2013 ee stated in writing that he strained his back pulling up on a spud bar . he did not want to see a doctor and finished his shift . on 1/16/2014 he seen a doctor for a back pain . he was off by the doctors orders for 5 days and came back to work on 1/21/2014 with restriction . he will be reevaluated by the doctor on 1/24/2014
employee was emptying trash . the dumpster lid was caught in an open position by the fence behindit . then the lid fell & pinched his right thumb between the dumpster & lid .
employee was climbing down ducon tank ladder , a short 3 rung stationary ladder . took left leg off to place it on next rung and right foot slipped off . left leg went down and landed akwardly on catwalk and right ankle got caught inbetween ladder and frame work . resulted in strained left knee and sprained right ankle .
injured was installing cable roof bolts . he had finished torquing the bolt & was retracting the boom mast . he placed his left hand on the boom mast . as it retracted , the boom mast caught his l eft glove & pulled it between the boom mast & framework resulting in a fracture & laceration .
employee experienced back pain while loading haul truck . the operator was moving into the dig face when ee experienced the pain .
ee was washing small backhoe in wash bay . ee tried to reposition for better cleaning of engine . ee had left hand on handrail and both feet on the track . ee slipped and lost grip . realized step was not below ee and made contact with floor .
employee was changing out a side roll on the conveyor when he dropped the 10 lb . roll on his left knee resulting in a bruise
ee was working as a mechanic assistant around welding activities , during his work shift on 5/10/04 . later that night he suffered from irritated eyes , presumably caused by welding flashes .
the ee noticed a skin rash on several parts of the body . went to see dr. and diagnosed with contact dermatitis .
employee was assisting in removing draw rock from the top of the miner . as the rock was sliding off from the miner , he got his hand caught between the rock and door on launch vehicle . the empl oyee was wearing gloves . sutures and a finger splint for the fracture is the treatment received .
employee had reported to work on september 6 stating that he had been seen by his personal physician and had been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrom . he had been working long hours , for serveral days , on an emergency overhaul and had aggrevated his wrist . he was sent to the company doctor who has placed him on light duty with pt and anti-inflamitory drugs .
roof fall on # 1 unit , left return air course near spad # 8152. fall measured 25 ' long x 19 ' wide x 5 ' high . 4 ' resin bolts were in use in this area . fall is dangered off on all sides so no person can enter affected area .
the operator was using a 992g model to clean up a pit . he was loading the remains of a pad previously used by a pc 3000. while loading the bucket , the machine was stopped by a rock . the sudden stop of the machie caused the operator's wrist to be pushed against the joy stick and resuled in a sprain of the wrist .
while exiting a connex employee used a cross support bar as a step . his foot slid backwards causing him to fall . pain in left leg . employee taken to first aid where ice pack was applied , otc aleve was given for pain . he was released back to work . on 1/2/14 he was still having pain . x-ray done on 1/3 showed an avulsion fracture at the base of his lower left leg .
the employee was walking down the wash plant screen stairs when he slipped and went to catch himself and hurt his hand . employee was sent to fast med , was released back to work on 8/1/2012 he experienced sharp pain and numbness and sent him back to fast med .
removing a latch door for a chute at the krupp . as ee was setting the latch door down , he pinched his hand ( laceration ) .
ee was removing rust from a vibrator hose base and debris flew into his left eye .
in # 1 dry mill electrical room , ee was testing voltage in main breaker for transformer that feeds the substation . when using voltage meter , electrical flash caught ee on left hand . he was transported to hospital er by fire dept . rescue squad . some skin removal and perscrip given .
employee was rolling cribbing off forks of volvolift . cribbing rolled offf fork and came close to employees foot and leg . employee turned his body quikly to avoid the cribbing and twisted his left knee .
flushing material from a hopper made contact with operator's legs , neck , belly , mouth . this material was around 800 degrees fahrenheit . improper ppe .
employee was improperly using a 4-1/2 '' grinder ( whereby the guard thus became ineffective ) to grind welding slag off of a metal ring . while holding the grinder with his left hand improperly , the grinder became out of control striking the tip of his right thumb . employee was wearing all required ppe .
last shift fri night noise was heard exiting the mine . found lower ne wear plate folded . plans made to repair the wear plate and inspect the shaft before the weekend crew came in . sat morning , wear plate replaced , shaft inspected and discovered damaged guide at -965. call to msha at 11:25am to report shaft down . repairs completed and weekend crews returned to work at 4:00 pm
a roof fall occurred on main north track at 25 xcut , 28+00 feet , # 4 entry ( old 2 west area ) . fall was 60 ' l , 20 ' w , 8 ' h. area was mined in oct 1988. roof fall occurred due to deterioration of the immediate roof around existing roof bolts . area was supported with 8 ' resin anchored 2 ' , expander shell roof bolts , plank , header block , & 12 ' passive cable bolts & cribs with crossbars .
an employee and injured employee were moving an adjustable top rail to the 30 belt conveyor . as they were descending stairs , ee set his end down to reposition himself . ie was at the top of the stairs and felt the rail move . ie tried to reposition his hand when his finger got pinched between the rail and the top step .
ee was helping put wire screen on the miner when a piece of stone popped out of the rib and struck him on the face .
loader dropped a large rock in bed of truck causing driver to be jolted hard . employee complained of head neck and back pain . employee stated there was bleeding from the rectum . employee le ft and went to logan gen. hosp . when he discovered the bleeding . the jolt broke counter inside of truck also .
ee got thumb on right hand stuck between a box of powder and the railing on the platform . ee placed on restricted duty .
mud was on steps of service truck causing ee to slip when getting in truck , hitting his face on the bottom door jam , knocking his front tooth loose .
on 10/12/04 injured fill out an accident report stating he was attempting to move 55 gal barrel of gear oil he strained his lower back , right side . inj went to dr , con't working . 5/21/05 injured attempted to hook a welder to golf cart when he felt a pull . went to dr. worked 5/23 & 5/24 off work since 5/25/05 . not reportable until 5/21/05
changing screen cloth , ee was tightening j-bolt . slipped off hand went into edge of screen cloth . wrench cutting middle finger right hand .
ee was picking up a rock that had fell on the h20 line and strained his back .
employee was welding at the rosin dryer-110 roomarea when he accidently struck an arc while his hood was up . he was treated for welding flash inhis left eye .
as the miner was cutting the second pillar cut in the right side of the no . 2 entry a roof fall occurred covering the continuous miner . there were no injuries . location of fall was on break ab ove spad # 2418 .
walking from mantrip to section , twisted ankle on a rock and fell on right hand and fractured wrist .
employee was using a battery powered sawzall and felt increaded numbness & weakness in his hands . on 5/19/03 the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome was determined to be occupationally related . surgery on 5-19-03 .
ee was tightening an elbow on probe
i 've been gone since feb returning on april 5th so this didn't get reported . ee was helping to align a shim under a pillow block bearing when the pry bar slipped while tightening the belts causing the pillow block bearing to drop on ee's left thumb . ee has a non displaced fracture of distal phalanx and laceration without foreign body damage to nail .
the ee was moving buggy tires and twisted lower left side of back when he piced up aired up tire to move to supply station .
ee was moving forks on skytrack ... decided to take a shortcut ... instead of tipping forks to release & swing free ... he tried to force while resting against the bar ... fork moved catching index finger of right hand ... broke finger ... removed nail ... peeled skin back .
a roof fall has occurred in the 1st northwest sub-mains at spad 28+00 . the dimensions of roof fall are 180 ' long , 19 ' wide , and 6 ' high .
ee was using a cup type wire wheel . one of the wires struck him in the arm and became lodged in his arm . a physician saw the ee on 1-21-04 and stated that the wire would have to be left alone and work its way out . later , the wire had to be surgically removed . he was released to full duty immediately after the surgery .
employee started bagging belt . the head pully was turning but the belt was not moving .
around 5:10am ee was climbing the steps to his euclid haul truck when he reached the third step his left foot slipped , causing him to fall down , hitting face arm-hand , 4 loose teeth
ee perofrming maintenance work in plant . was securing ( ) holding ) ladder whil another ee was handling a pipe coupler . coupler was dropped & fell approx 6 ' , striking victim in head , causing lace rations & bruises . laceration required stitches . ee was not wearing hard hat at time of accident .
ee backed into be loaded and shovel door came in contact with headache rack , jarring the employee in the cab . ee complained of numbness in legs and tightness in upper back . initial evaluation resulted in referral to specialist , specialist released employee to restricted duty which could not be accommodated .
employee was cutting small tree down to clear area . while under supervision the ee fell . the tree , however when it came to rest it struck the ee's left ankle . ee did not see dr thinking it w as only bruised until 6-7-02. reportable due to break .
descending a ladder at radial stacker for crusher , slipped on bottom rung & over extended his ( l ) knee . he did not request medical treatment until 3/18/04 . clinic determined sprain to ( l ) knee & he returned the same day to regular duty .
employee states that he hurt his back while driving getman lift truck on or aboout december 1 , 2004. pain grew worse in his back over past few weeks until employee finally went to the doctor of 01/05/05 . employee received light duty for three weeks .
ee was getting out of truck when he missed the second step . when his foot hit the mine floor causing him to twist right knee .
during the routine cleaning of the calciner ee was using a spud bar to clean an inspection porthole . during the process of clearing material from the port ee strained back .
employee was driving a personel carrier down the mn travelway , when a small piece of rock fell from the roof and struck him in the face . this caused a laceration to the employees nose . he required 4 stitches to the bridge of the nose and 2 black eyes .
kuhn town elevator was down , door would not unlock at the top of the shaft . shindler was called and found the problem . they cleaned contactors to correct problem . elevator back in service at 2:30 pm . no persons were on the elevator at this time .
employee was attempting to repair a broken chainon the dm 45 ingersol drill . while standing on the rotary head which was approx 15 ' above the ground the opposite chain broke and allowed the rotary head to free fall approx 12 ' while he was standing on it . the impact of the fall caused his injury .
ee was dismounting from the drill rig . as he stepped to the ground and put his weight on the foot that was on the ground , the rock he was stepping onto shifted , causing him to fall , rolling hi s right ankle .
ee took a hearing test which put him over the limit on exposure to noise i was made aware on 8/2/10 that this is a reportable accident to msha . i apologize for failing to report this incident within the 10 working days as required in part 50 .
employee was moving pipes and tripped , causing the pipe to fall on his shoulder . he returned to work after treatment . he underwent physical therapy unsucessfully and had later had surgury . this is a lost time as of 1-12-09
ee stripped outer jacket of cable , the knife slipped resulting in a cut to his left thumb .
the employee was fire bossing from tail to head , ee passed the shearer as they started mining . the employee stepped on the toe of 120 shield , when the shield inby ee pulled in pinning ee between the shield and pan line .
while riding in a mantrip was bounced off the seat when the vehicle ran over an unknown object . the injured experienced pain prompting a first aid only report 8/25/2016 . employee continued working without restriction until they began missing work due to surgery 3/23/2017 .
operator heard loud pop . looked back and saw flames coming out of exhaust pipe causing smoke to fill area , resulting turbo charger on fire . operator choose to leave area and start evacuation o f mine .
while checking the coolant level in the radiator of a diesel pump , the coolant boiled over causing it to hit ee on the right side of the face and eye causing first and second degree burns to those areas .
injured was releasing a brake on a railroad car . he stated that he had to jerk on the t-handle hook to break the brake loose . when he jerked on the t-handle it came out of the brake wheel causing his right elbow to strike the drawhead of the railroad car .
ee was in the employees parking lot and was walking to his vehicle . ee slipped on some ice and fell onto his claw hammer which punctured employees left buttocks . first aid was provided to the employee .
ee stood up after eating lunch and as he was turning around to leave , a pain in his right leg caused him to sit back down .
roof fall 1w # 3 belt , x-cut # 95 to # 96. dimensions h 20 ' w 19.5 ' l 85 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in roof . roof support : 5 ' conventional bolts .
this injury occured while doing overhead lifting over a period of four days .
ee was washing off a concrete pad with a high pressure water hose , when hose broke and struck ee in the leg , causing injury .
ee was moving a 12x12x8 timber out of a pick-up when he claims to have twisted wrong and pinched a nerve in his back .
ee smashed pinky finger on left hand while rebuilding pump . diagnosis laceration , released to restricted duty .
ee was operating the tail side shearer drum . some rock fell into the panline inby the shearer and as it went under the shearer a piece was kicked out into the jack line striking him on the lef t lower leg causing a hairline fracture to the small bone in lower leg .
while working on communication equipment , ee relaxed his hand to his side where his right pinky finger came into contact with the partially exposed blade of a utility knife . medical aid was sought and five stiches were required .
ee was working at the harris mine , used the bathroom porta john and a spider bit him .
ee was stacking/storing wire mesh onto the walk-through bolters mesh handling slide . as ee was handling the mesh , the tip of ee's finger caught on the mesh causing a laceration to the tip of the finger . ee received 4 sutures to the tip of the finger . ee received a full release to perform normal occupation . ee did not miss time as a result of this injury .
he had stepped down from a endloader and stepped into a drill hole and fractured his right ankle . he was starting the loader for worktime to warm up .
ee was backing up a rubber tired mantrip `` 3-wheeler '' when he struck his head against the mine roof .
employee was trying to stabilize the atrs beam mount to flip it over . when flipping it over the mesh latch assembly came down and cut from the first knuckle off on his index finger on left hand .
three miners were cleaning up . one was operating a wheel loader and the other two were throwing scrap steel into the bucket to be taken to a dumpster . the loader operator thought one of the other miners signaled operator to lower the bucket . operator then lowered the bucket onto one of the miners foot .
the employee was cutting a steel plate when the cut end fell on his left foot . he told the head mechanic he told the owner , who then told injured to go to the doctor as the steel had punctured the skin . injured filled a l & i report . on the report , injured said that head mechanic was a witness , but he did not witness the accident .
ee was helping put de-railed bus back on track . while using a railroad jack to lift the bus , thejack slipped out from under the bus striking hishand . a 1/2 '' long cut required three stitches .
emp was carrying a tool bag . the tool bag was in front of him about chest high which limited his visibility . he made a right hand turn . when he turned he stepped on a timber 6 '' x6 '' x3 ' and twisted his right ankle . he requested to go to the dr on 7/25/13 and has 2 fractures . he was on days off after the fall and requested not to go to the dr. at time of injury .
employee was using two wrenchs to break a fitting . one slipped , causing the employees hand to strike a metal vise . laceration to left index finger , requiring 6 stitches .
as employee was lapping belt into scoop bucket his foot was under the bucket resting on a rock . the scoop operator trammed the scoop forward and caught employees foot between the bottom of the bucket and the rock . employee refused ambulance and went to raleigh general hospital for treatment .
employee was walking from the wash plant to the water pump control box ( approximately 75 feet ) . employee reports stepping on a rock and twisting/spraining his knee . physician exam and x-rays showed no permanent damage to knee . physician placed 30 lb . lifting restriction , no bending or twisting , walking as tolerated .
ee was walking between the a track and runner switch at the landing at solvay when ee slipped on a piece of ice falling on buttocks . ee felt a pain in lower neck/mid back area and a tingling in left hand . ee was taken to the er where ee was advised a follow up with ee's primary physician , restricted to light duty and discharged .
ee states he was climbing steps into semitrailer on job site and slipped on step , causing him to fall forward and strike face on breaker box .
examiner found roof fall in # 2 entry of the main north entry fall is approx . 40 ' long 17-18 '' wide 6-7 ' high fall is in intake between 32 to 33 xcut 2580 to 2660-will clean up around fall in adjacent entries to have passable travel wall . fall will not be cleaned up timber or cribs will be set on ends of fall .
a roof fall was found on 3/14/2015 at entry 7 at survey station 35+70 in 8l intake , mmu 010. area had been mined 2/20/2015 and was supported with 8 ' full resin pins , 4 additional 10 ' cable bolts had been installed in intersection . two significant slips likely contributed to failure . no injury or property damage resulted , no plan to clean up fall .
ee was tightening bolt on screen deck clamp board & felt pain in right shoulder . ee did not seek medical treatment until april 26 , 2018. ee was diagnosed with a labral tear on may 4 , 2018 & reported back to work with no restrictions . ee will be having surgery in the near future , in the interim ee continues to work normal job .
two mechanics were working on a rotary valve in the return dust silo . they had closed the manual gate , pulled the end cap they cleaned out the rotary valve , material fell from above and entere d his eye .
employee was climbing onto the volvo trackhoe . as he pulled himself up he felt a pain in his right shoulder and felt it pop . he reported it to his supervisor .
washing batteries on fairchild scoop , a kink came in hose . while removing kink the force of the water thru right hand into the lid of scoop battery causing a laceration to right ring finger . requiring 5 stitches . .
the injured person was trying to pry open the chamber door to a drais mill , when the pry bar he was using slipped . the injury occured when he over extended his right elbow . the doctor diagnosised the injury as a lateral epicondylitis of the right elbow .
ee was operating a scoop and using a cable to pull a conveyor chain back together in a shuttle car . the cable broke and struck ee in the face .
the injured worker slipped on an oily surface where he was standing to replace the leaking seal and twisted his left knee . he did not report the injury for a few days as he thought it was a minor injury . after dr visit & and mri it was determined that surgery would be required to his knee . this was determined on 11/3/05 .
ee was tightening a bolt on the primary crusher & pulled muscles in his shoulder & neck
while ee was walking from shop area to midway building he stepped on a large stone causing him to twist foot . he didn't report anything wrong & took 2 personal vacation days w/o telling anyone what had happened . 3 days after the incident he went to the hospital to find that the foot was broken . on mon . ( 5 days later ) he came to the plant to tell us what had happened . no witnesses .
ee was cleaning kiln # 3 feed shelf with a waterblaster when from the port of tower a puff of hot kiln dust came out . the dust went under face shield and burned his chin and lips .
a roof fall occurred old 4th south unit 2. fall is in an intersection in a return entry . the fall affected ventilation and unit mmu 002-0 ceased production until the fall was cleaned up . the fall is 18 ' l by 18 ' w by 8 ' h. supported with 6 and 10 ft point anchor roof bolts .
injury ee was walking around the front of the section feeder when he stepped on some loose coal causing him to loose his balance and fall on his right foot , he was seen by his family dr and removed from work 11-13-07 .
in the right breaks between 3 and 4 ee had his hand in the vise for the hands off ont he roof bolter , when he passed the wrong lever and clamped his left hand .
ee was driving a forklift tractor on the main road of panel 20. tractor tie hit a rock in the road with the front tire causing the steering wheel to suddenly rotate or spin hitting ee in right hand .
ee lost footing on rock vibrator and fell . ( fell on screen - same level . )
while repairing a broken bracket on air door , employee was using a grinder and welder . at some point in the evening the employee thought ee had some dust in ee's right eye and reported it to ee's supervisor , who took ee into the doctor . the doctor at er removed foreign object .
scoop operator was tramming around a corner when ee came in contact with a low hanging corner .
ee alleges he strained his back handling rock at a head drive .
ee was helping another ee splice conveyor belt . reached over side of conveyor to loosen bolt to roller.hand rail ( cable slipped ) fell to side , leg hung in frame of conveyor
ee was pumping water from pit , left area for an hour , returned and pump was still running but no water coming out the discharge hose . shut pump off and uncoupled the discharge hose . hot water from pump sprayed on ee's forearms adn stomach/chest resulting in 1st and 2nd degree burns on 10 % of body . thermal burn
ee reported his right shoulder had been bothering him . no specific incident noted . employee was diagnosed with osteoarthritis . ee was not restricted or missed any time as a result of the illness until surgery was performed on 10/13/11 .
ee was walking back to a piece of equipment when ee tripped . the area was next to the standards of the electric shovel . footing was level with no large obstructions . when ee fell left lower forearm was lacerated and required sutures . the sutures made this incident reportable
elevator entrapment in 10:38 a.m. -- out 12:24 a.m. - employee was stuck in the concentrator step 3 freight elevator @ 10:38 a.m. for 106 minutes . msha was called at 10:58 a.m. electronic voltage controller lost power - did not see voltage so the motor timed out , most likely due to dirty contacts . vendor keeps contacts clean .
contractor employee under our suprevision was removing drill steel from hole and struck his left wrist on a metal burr , resulting in laceration . he was terminated for failing to follow company policy for seeking medical attention .
employee was operating a truck when the truck jumped from 1st to 2nd gear . after applying the brakes , they locked up throwing ee in to the canopy-striking his head . he landed on the metal edge of the seat , bruising his tailbone
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west panel off the main north in # 2 entry at 26 xc . the intersection was supported with 48 '' fully grouted roof bolts .
bolting intersection in # 3 heading spad # 1305. employee was installing a combination bolt with his right hand on the pot and the corner rolled off on him .
fire in the coal pile discovered at 7:37 a.m. this incident was reported to msha at 8:00 a.m. using the 800 telephone number and it was completely put out by 8:18 a.m. no person was injured and no equipment damaged was reported .
got out of mantrip car , stepped up and twisted knee . started missing work 11-16-2010 .
a reportable roof fall was found in e seam , 10 headgate , entry1 , crosscut 1. the fall was approximately 10 feet high , 24 feet wide , and 40 feet long .
ee was picking up pull chain on shuttle car and twisted right knee .
injured ee was replacing a hub liner in the no.1raw mill separator , using a 1/2 '' electric impactwrench . when the wrench cord became hung up the ee pulled up on the cord in an attempt to free t he cord . the cord came free and the plug at the end of the cord struck the ee in the tooth .
roof bolt operator was pulling his cable slack up and was shocked . the shock burned his finger.the ee was taken outside immediately and treated . also taken to hospital where he was treated & kept one night for observation .
tailgate entry fall in front of and adjacent to the longwall face from approx 1390 ' to 1425 ' mark . the fall height was averaged about 3 ' .
contractor msha i.d. # s146 all-around employee was using a cutting torch when something flew in rt . eye under welding hood and safety glasses . ee did not report injury until 04/26/2016 . object was embedded .
ee was loosening bolts when the wrench slipped off and his hand struck on fitting . it cut through his glove and cut his little finger on his right hand . he received 4 stitches .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at xc128 , entry 5 , on the 1st north submain . the fall measured 30 ' long x 19 ' wide x 7.5 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' double lock bolts . no injuries were sustained , approx . 40 ' of belt structure was damaged .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 1 entry of 4 south mains . the fall was located at ss 175+20 in a return entry . the fall measured approx . 25 ft long by 16 ft wide by 8 ft high . no injury or equipment damage as a result of fall . fall will not be cleaned up .
ee climbing from operators position on a cat 631-d scraper . ee foot slipped off step causing his head to strike side of scraper . ee sufferer a slight concussion .
while coming down stairs , injured slipped on a chunk of material that was covered up at the bottom of the steps . he tried to catch himiself .
on 7-6-2010 ee was recovering a water pump using a cart . the cart started to tip over and as he attempted to stop it from falling over he strained his right shoulder . ee continued to work . on 1-14-2014 he had surgery to correct this condition . the first day of work missed due to this condition was 01-14-2014 .
ee suffered a chemical burn to his rt . eye , which required rx medicine . ee was looking at the job in a squatted position . at that time a piece of scale fell from the press floor grating . the scale fell into trough splashing liquor into his eye .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on a-mains , # 4 entry ( # 1 belt ) , at # 7 block , 1 block left of spad 31. it measured 6 ' high x 8 ' long x 12 ' wide .
ee was lifting the hoist rope cover , located above his head and strained his right shoulder and arm .
a roof fall occurred in # 1 main belt entry about 20 ' inby the highwall . it measured 12'long , 16'wide , 3'high . no injuries . about 12 ' of belt structure pull cord & power control cable were mode rately damaged .
ee was changing worn screen panel . because of rain and very tight quarters inside the screen , ee slipped with a razor knife , cutting through his gloves into this finger.s
ee was kneeling down at mine phone at section tailpiece . when he raised up , he struck his head against the mine roof . the ee did not start missing work until 2-11-04 .
employee repetitively refed 50 pound bags for 5 days . after ee weekend off , ee reported severe back pain and saw a doctor who gave ee medication and restricted duty
employee was working on a lead inside of a starting box and as ee was cutting the insulation off the lead ee's knife came out and struck ee's left arm .
the employee states he stepped out of the forklift and caught his left foot on one of the pedalsof the forklift causing his left knee to strike the forklift . this resulted in a sprained knee .
ee was describing an incident on another machineas talking ee reached to show ee where bag had been caught & left hand went into pinch point-head pulley-idler roller area . abrasion to back of left hand & possible fracture to ring finger bottom knuckle
ee was positioning a box of resin on the right front tool tray of roof bolter in the e15 ( 026-0 ) section when the machine operator started to tram the machine inby to position machine for roof bolting . employee's left foot was run over by the front tire .
while removing the driveline from a 24h blade , the driveline slipped and pinched the employee's finger between the shaft and the concrete floor . the incident resulted in a laceration and a tuft fracture .
ee was putting up 4 '' steel pipe in panel , he pushed up with his right arm and felt and heard a pop in his right shoulder .
ee was pulling on a welding lead and tripped and fell on his left hand resulting in a broken left hand ,
ee was dismounting number 17 jeep ( 2 blocks outby 8a switch ) approximately 97 block 6 north track entry - ee stated that while stepping off of jeep twisted right ankle - fracturing bone in foot - bottom uneven - walkway was clear of obstrcutions .
employee alleges he was rolling a piece of screen cloth out on a storage rack and felt a pull in his back . he was diagnosed with a muscle strain , but after no improvement was sent for an mri which revealed a herniation of a disc .
ee and supervisor were changing bucket on track hoe . ee was holding 2nd pin when it came out quickly and forced his hand down on the bucket , pinching his left pinkie finger between bucket and pin . ee watched finger over weekend and made dr appt for 10/28/09 . he voluntarily took off monday and tuesday .
while working , went to remove a ripped piece of conveyor belting . while plant was stopping , the ripped belting fell between counter weight and got caught . the ripped belting was whipped arou nd . it tagged the lower legs , causing welting and cuts .
individual fell while exiting bt-5 mantrip on the kuhn town bottom . individual struck the left elbow and left knee when striking the ground .
person was working on electrical problem on dnr dozer . he was getting off dozer to go to service truck and when he stepped off push arm he twisted his right ankle and fell on ground .
individual was carrying crib blocks and tossing them in a pile when the individual felt pain in the right shoulder . individual continued to work until 4/8/11 when ee could no longer work .
the miner received 1st and 2nd degree burns when ee removed a battery lift jack after the bottom pin was cut out with a cutting torch . the miner placed the jack on the mine floor and the hot oil sprayed on the miners hand . the miner was wearing gloves at the time of the accident .
injured was standing on the bumper of the miner pulling roof straps into position on the strap holder when the operator dropped the boom on his right foot . he had two fractured toes with no tr eatment .
ee was wearing cloth gloves while working with w46d chemical . the chemical soaked through his gloves & was later spread to other areas of his body . ee was exposed again without wearing prope r ppe according to msds . restrictions began 7/1703
ee started to kneel during her normal work duties when she felt her knee pop . there were no contibuting conditions other than a previous injury that the employee stated happened out of the workplace . damage was to the right knee acl which will result in surgery .
an unplanned roof fall occured in the # 6 entry at spad # 13008 ventilation was not affected no persons or equipment was involved the fall measure 20 ' in length 19 ' width and 8 ' high all entrances have been breakered off .
employee was located at the bottom of a highwall moving hose when a rock came loose and hit his finger .
roof fall in # 2 belt mains near spad # 1940 measuring 50 ' long by 18 ' wide by 4.5 ' w .
8h longwall , injured was standing mid-shear when a piece of rock fell , hit top of shear and slid into walkway . rock struck left foot causing fracture to left foot .
ee was rock bolting heading . gooseneck on drill broke loose and struck ee on cheek causing laceration that ended up needing stitches .
this report is being filed under protest and solely to abate citation 9005622. according to msha , employee ( ssn 5489 ) incurred a reportable injury when the tongue of a flat car came loose and struck him on the left hand . ee denies that it breached and duty to report an occupational injury and reserves the right to contest the issuance of the citation .
ee was installing a cable bolt in the roof . the plate came in contact with the bottom of his wrist causing a laceration .
ee was working on a dozer with an air wrench . a bolt came loose pinching his middle finger on this right hand .
ee was moving a large electric motor up a flight of stairs to a shaker at the main crusher and strained his lower back . the strain was enough for a doctor visit . the doctor prescribed muscle relaxants and 3 days of restrictive duty of no more than 10 pounds of lifting .
drill steal slipped off of carousel on drill . operator called for help . employee went to help . they kept the boom vertical , ee was holding the steel in place . he signaled to the drill operator that he is ready , while the grips were closing around steel ... he moved his hand into the clamp , catching his thumb between the clamp and the steel .
a roof fall occurred in belt entry at # 1 break . the fall was approx 30 ft long x 20 ft wide x 5 ft high . the fall will be cleaned up and re-bolted .
a fully trained miner injured right ear when building a stopping and the block ee was lifting slipped from hands and hit ear . the accident was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
ee was changing wear plate in tunnel . rock fell from above hit ee in left hand .
emp . came to work and put on work boots . during tool box mtg emp . felt a burning/itching to his right foot , 4th toe . he felt swelling later during his work shift and removed his boot . emp . took ibu for pain and swelling and applied ice . on 8/29/14 emp . taken to company dr. for increase swelling and drainage . emp . given an antibiotic and placed on restrictions .
employee advised he was carrying a belt rail post and tripped on the bottom roller . he dropped the rail to catch himself and the rail landed on top of his hand . his left hand was bruised and h e was required to be on restricted duty for two days .
ee was a passenger in a golf cart while traveling underground . as the golf cart traveled under an overcast , it started up a grade outby the overcast , and collided with a ram car ( dust hauler ) that was traveling through a ventilation curtain . injured ee struck right leg against something on the golf cart causing a partial fracture to the tibia , just below the knee .
ee was cutting to the head . a piece of draw rock came off the end of the drum striking member's right index finger . employee was wearing fingerless metacarpal gloves . ee received sutures .
on 4-19-01 , while ee's truck was being loaded it was jarred by a large rock and ee felt pain in his back . at that time , the ee did not wish to seek medical attention . on 4-23-01 , he went to th e dr and was placed on sedentary duty .
ee was climbing down from loader , foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground and twisting his right ankle .
ee was welding , arc of welder flashed his eyes , causing burn to both eyes .
employee twisted his knee while walking into an excavation . he was released to full duty on 10/10/2013 . mri performed on 10/21/2013 showed a fracture . employee was put on restrictions on 10/23/2013 .
ee was putting fork arms on the forklift . he was trying to line up pin holder , and put his finger in the hole to see if it was lineing up . the fork arms moved , cutting and smashing his left middle finger .
was on the bow of the boat trying to catch cable to place it on the boat to make a connection . suddenly , other ee put the boat into reverse , causing ee to go overboard , hitting the cable with his right arm and right shoulder . office was not made aware of the accident by foreman until 12/17/07 , and 7000-1 not complete until today .
while climbing down off the track mobile , the bottom step broke causing the employee to hyper extend his left knee . he was taken to seek medical attention and was put on restricted duty until his mri on 2/5/07 .
employee was stepping over pipe fittings between the rib and the mantrip when his foot slipped and he fell into the mantrip . reportable lost time injury 10/6/06 .
crew was changing the screens on the secondary lime deck and they had a loader positioned to pull screens from the bucket . loader bucket bled off and it dropped , causing the railing to fall onto the ee , knocking him into the screen . ee insisted he was fine and not hurt . next day requested vac day . he worked following day , but called in 9/22/08 , wanting medical attention .
employee stated while working on the rk2 preheater ram ee was removing a 2 '' inch steel pin when it dropped onto right little finger . ee further stated it both smashed and cut finger . ee was taken to the hospital for treatment and the er physician closed the wound with 2 sutures .
on 5/24/01 ee struck a loader bucket tooth with a hammer & metal splinter lodged in right thigh.after xray dr decided not to remove it , put bandaid on it & ee ret 'd to full duty . on 10/02 , ee started having leg pain , no action taken other than rx's but pain con't . 6/10/03 neurologist put ee on restricted duty & scheduled nerve surgery 7/3/03 expected to be out of work 3 wks & on
the ee twisted his right knee while attempting to mount an end dump after servicing it . this occurred on 3-5-04 , but he did not request medical attention until 8-30-04. an mri revealed a torn meniscus . he continued to perform his regular duties until the day of his surgery 10-5-04 and 10-5-04 is his first day of restricted duty .
the prod hoist tripped and could not be reset . upon investigation it was determined that an h strand on the sw guide rope of the west skip had separated from the rope and had coiled up between the shoeboxes for the entire length of the rope . the coiled h strand contacted and damaged the first limit switch as the skip reached the head frame .
a roof fall was discovered at the # 7 wall intersection in the track entry of the old 6 east longwall section . no injuries . the dimensions of the fall are 30 feet long x 15 feet wide x 8 feet high .
ee alleges he received an electrical shock from a roof bolt machine cable . ee did not seek medical attention until 2-23-05. he was admitted to pineville hospital for observation only and released on 2-25-05 . ( no defects were observed in the cable . )
an examiner and an msha inspector found a roof fall during a weekly examination of a worked out area . the fall was located in the 1 left , 1 right , 3 left , 4 west panel in entry # 2 , between crosscuts 11 and 12. the fall was located in the examiners normal route of travel .
roof fall at west mains track , # 5 entry at # 146 break . rock measured 20 ' x 20 ' x 9 ' . the location was mined in jul 1989 and was bolted with 4 ' fully grouted bolts and 6 ' cable bolts . the fall occurred 36,260 ' from the face .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the entry # 1 . 1 break inby spad # 4319. this fall is approx 2800 ' from active section in the return airway . area was developed 10/15/09 . roof fall did not affect ventilation and/or passage of persons . the fall will not be rehabilitated . size of fall 20'w x 60'l x 8 ' thick . state and federal agencies notified immediately .
injured was in the rear seat of # 10 hummer on the passenger side . hummer went thru a hole and hit hard on the bottom jamming injured into seat bottom and back . back of hummer then pitched up j amming injured head against the roof . injured has started physical therapy on 3-26-03 .
employee was cleaning a screenbox on tank 91. trapped cleaning caustic broke free and splashed employee .
ee was hooking up chains to pull the jam die out , he held onto the top of the die with his right hand allowing his middle finger to get between the die & the jam , the die slipped to one side approx 1/2 '' & smashed the end of his middle finger .
employee complained of chest pains and other pains . he was taken to local hospital to be checked out . ( st lukes - tryon , nc ) from there sent to spartanburg , sc .
he was shoveling at the headgate drive area on the longwall face . he stood up and cut his right ear on a roof strap . the result was 7 sutures .
using torque wrench to loosen lug nut when miner slipped , rolled ankle and fx his fibula
inj was installing a new concrete floor in an underground maintenance shop . he was operating a screen board to level off the cement when he sprained his lower back
ee strained back while lifting wheel chocks out of the bracket on the front of a haul truck
ee was helping co-worker put on a patch on the primary crusher . they got ready to move the belt so as to get to the outer clips . co-worker toldee and other ee's to watch out he was going to bump the conveyor . ee thought he said to pull the belt by hand . when co-worker hit the button , ee grabbed the belt and the belt broke his rt . finger and cut his other finger .
ee stepped in a hole that was filled with water and twisted his right knee . lost time injury .
ee reported : working an extra day , assigned job of building a stopping . after completing the stacking process , was to begin applying plaster . when he picked up 35lb bucket of plaster , experienced pain to his low back . pain worsened , came out of mine at 2:30pm , treated by local physician , removed from work staus til 10/1/07 .
ee was working on a scalper deck of a crushing plant . he got his finger between a bar and hammer and lacerated his right middle finger . ee did not report this injury until 10/13/09 when it became infected .
employee drilled hole in top and steel lodged in hole . as he let down drill pot steel fell , from the hole landing on his left index finger smasheing it against drill chuck .
pinner steel was stuck in the pinner chuck , ee was trying to remove it when ee accidently bumped the rotation lever and the steel spun and hit ee's wrist
ee was climbing down steps after oiling kiln , when he felt pain in right knee .
ee was in bolter basket , barring down rock , when rock came down and pinched ee's finger between the scaling bar and the bolter basket . ( flesh and muscle pulled off bone ; surgery to reattach was successful . )
ee was unloading main belt uni structure . when he experienced pain in his back .
the operator was working on cleaning up a slurry mess under a preleach thickner . the sump pump he was hosing into was overwhelmed with solid material cuasing the discharge line . the cam lock c ame loose fromt he discharge line after being chrge with air . the operator was struck by the filing on his left forearm .
ee was jackhammering through an inspection door on # 1fm discharge airfloat . when jackhammer slipped catching the middle finger on left hand between jackhammer handle and the door mashing the f inger . sent to doctor , finger was fractured .
the employee was sitting in a rubber tire mantrip with one leg on the ground . the operator advanced the mantrip forward causing a twist in the lower back . the injury was not reported until 12/13/10 .
a rock fall was found in 1st south panel off 1st east submain in # 9 entry at 12+00 to 13+00 in intersection . it measured 100ft . long x 19ft . wide x 8ft . thick . the area has been timbered and cribbed around .
ee was using a wrench to remove a bolt when the wrench slipped & mashed the end of his middle finger on his right hand between the wrench & a piece of angle iron
ee stated that he was roof bolting when a piece of rock fell from the roof and struck his side and ankle on the left side . ee was x-rayed and x-rays are negative .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st main east , # 8 entry at xc 32 no injuries or disruptions to ventilation . the fall was approx . 18 ' long - 18 ' wide - 8 ' high . the fall was discovered around 1:00 am . there was also no equipment involved .
employee was replacing a pd blower and when reaching for his tool he felt a pain in his upper arm
walking behind machine & it slewed left & edge of canopy hit ee in the chest . ee's momentum placed ee close to the canopy . ee was briefly pinned against the rib .
ee was exiting a track locomotive mantrip along the me track neat e-15 . ee stepped into a hole in the mine bottom , twisting his right ankle . *ee returned to his regular job 3/1/00 thru 3/3/00 . *first day off 3/6/00 .
employee reported soreness in shoulder after swinging 16 lb sledge hammer . employee states shoulder has been hurting for some time ( a year or more ) but is hurting worse now .
the employee was cleaning rock off his miner when the rock broke and cut his finger middle finger right hand . he recieved 3 stitches in his finger .
helping another ee put blocks between tracks of excavator . heard back pop ( blocks weight 10 # each handled about 6 blocks one at a time ) . trying to put track back on excavator thought just pull ed muscle . keep working until 2:20pm drove dozier to quarry office trailer . hurt getting out of dozer & walking to office trailer .
bleeding off pressure on high pressure hydraulic line to flip hoses around on longwall shields and inadvertently caught shirt sleeve on valve . he was struck by oil/water mix on the left arm that resulted in three puncture wounds . the oil infiltrated under his skin and the surgery to clean the fluid required over 300 sutures .
at approx . 9:25 pm a roof fall above the anchorage was found in the e entry of the 3 right off 4 left off 4 north section . the fall was about 30ft long x 18ft wide and 6-7 ft high . the area was dangered off . there were no injuries or property damage . fell at 8+15 .
ee fell on ice 15 feet from electric shop door . amendment to report dated 11-13-03. citation 6232667 as per audit .
employee was walking to mantrip . as he was going thru a check curtain he tripped over a rock and fell . he felt pain in his right shoulder .
ee was standing in front of a shield that lost shield pressure and they were trying to get the prime back . co-worker moved back one shield and set the prime control the shield that ee was standing in front of moved and went against foot . cause was safety awareness , compliance with rules/regs was not a factor , miner knowledge could be a factor , mining equipment/systems a factor .
a roof fall was found at 230 am on 10/10/07 , at cross cut 190 entry # 0. fall was in four way intersection that had been mined march , 1997. area was bolted with 8 ' full resin pins . no innury or property damage resulted . no plans to clean up fall .
ee rolled his ankle after stepping off a skid steer . he was seen at the er , referred to a foot and ankle specialist , and was diagnosed there with a fractured ankle . ee put off work .
the employee reported that he had been working on a silt pan . he exited the pan by climbing over the side . upon exiting he felt a strain in his back . on 11/21/05 employee visited a physician who believed he had a pinched cyatic nerve . it wasn't reported until 11/21/05
an unintentional roof fall occurred in # 2 entry , 1 block out by spad 10847 , on mmu-007 . it measured 10 ' high by 18 ' wide by 112 ' long . additional floor to roof support was added .
contractor worker was doing routine maintenace in the green areas next to the administration and scale buildings . the worker was operating the lawn mower tractor , a piece of tree trunk got st uck under the mower blades , at that moment the worker step out of the truck with the equipment running , the tractor was in a slope , his right leg got under the mower blade .
employee was grinding steel with a hand held grinder throughout the day . wearing a faceshield and glasses , when he got home he felt an irritation in his right eye .
employee was welding and using an air chipper tochip his weld . the employee had some dust and trash blow off of a grease troph into right eye .
haul trk was being loaded when a large boulder jarred the trk & caused back pain to ee
ee diagnosed with occupational carpal tunnel syndrome on 6/14/17 . treatment / possible surgery is pending at this time .
ee was walking down stairs . he buckled his left knee .
a unintentional roof fall was at station and 1943 abc main west intersection on belt line . fallw as 20 ft long 18 ft wide 10 to 12 ft high . the area had been bolted with 6 ft super bolts with additional supports installed . there were no injuries or equipment involved .
operator of ( uld59 ) was remote mucking a floor pull in the 4430-141. the mucker was 100 feet from the operator when the left rib began to work , trapping uld59 . msha 800 line was called . ee of msha placed a ( k ) order on potentially affected areas yet said we over reported . msha supervisor ee advised that a 7000-1 still needed to be filed .
ee had picked up a track tie from a scoop bucket , the tie slipped out of his hand , fell , and pinched his left middle finger between the tie and scoop bucket .
ee was working in the bagger warehouse . he was preparing to load bagged product into a boxcar and proceeded to mount a forklift . as he was positioning himself in teh seat of the fortruck , he f elt a sharp pain inhis left hip and leg . ee received medical treatment and was ordered to have restricted work activity for 3 days .
ee was pulling metal out of the rock box at 2a belt head and cut his middle finger of his right hand . ee received 8 stitches .
removing concrete form from shaft . while breaking form from concrete , form broke loose from concrete and struck ee on the right arm . laceration to arm below elbow that required stitches .
on 6/17/09 ee was bush hogging when he ran into the ditch causing the steering wheel to jerk - jarring his right shoulder . he continued to work until dr scheduled surgery on 8/27/09 .
injury happened on 1/31/01 . had reoccurring problem 3/30/01 . had to go to doctor who referred toorthopedic . was installing troughing roller . elbow hit metal frame .
ee was cutting a coupling . he accidentally stabbed himself in the leg . it required 4 stitches . he only missed a few hours work .
a roof fall was discovered in the # 2 entry 20 feet outby spad 511 in the 2nd west mains . the fall is appx . 18'wide x 20 ' long x 64 `` high . no persons , equipment nor ventilation was affected .
aggravated lower back . ee was assigned along with a second ee to remove a fuel hose reel from a mounting post . ee proceeded without second ee present . ee underestimated the weight of the fuel hose reel .
a mining foreman was operating a cat d6k2 lgp dozer blading a haul road . while blading he struck a rock , buried in the subgrade . this stopped the machine suddenly , causing the operator to lunge forward and strike his head against a steel grab bar in the machine . injury resulting was a left forehead laceration above the left eye , requiring 10 stitches .
ee was running a shuttle car and jarred his shoulder , and pulled shoulder muscles while supporting his body inside the shuttle car operation deck .
a mechanical problem with the sc4 conveyor head pulley resulted in the conveyor belt catching fire . a plant supervisor shut down the conveyor and local fire department was called to extinguish the burning conveyor belt . a limited amout of damage ( 36 feet of conveyor belt ) and no injuries as a result of this incident .
ee was standing beside the forklift as they were loading the scoop bucket with a bag of bulk dust . he reached down to get the pallet and had his right foot there also as the forklift pulled up , when he did this , he ran over his right foot causing a contusion with the forklift .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 130 mine on # 7 belt , brk # 12 , # 4 entry that measured 60 ' in length , 10 ' in height and 20 ' in width . the area was developed on 11/6/06 . no injuries were reported .
employee was working in man basket . he was hanging netting in the underground mine , work was above his head . he tried to straighten the netting out so that there was no slack and one side fell . material was heavier than he anticipated and it jerked his arm and strained his shoulder . he sought treatment and is on 20 lb lifting restrictions . no rx meds were prescribed .
pulling 250 # tail pulley back with come-along , to line up bearing . latch didn't catch & released itself , pulley moved forward pinning l hand between frame & pulley . caught l middle , ring & little fingers.3 sutures on 3rd finger and 1 suture on 5th finger . released for restricted , right-hand duty 5/14/2015 .
ee alleged that he was lifting end loader grill and that this is when he could have hurt his wrist .
mechanic was removing the dipstick for the transmission on the 52m broderson crane , when his hand made contact with the fan blade .
ee was lifting a 75 lb pump into a tractor , felt a pop and pull in the low back , and had immediate pain . ee was seen at the er , diagnosed with a lower back strain , and released to modified duty . at follow-up on 09/14/16 , ee was released to full duty .
fall occurred approx 70 ft outby spad # 457 in # 7 entry . approximate size of roof fall is 60 ft long , 18 ft wide , 5 ft thick .
the employee was helping belt up when the employee was struck on the right thumb with a rail that was being installed by another ee . this injury result ed in 4 stitches .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered along grassy creek mains no . 4 entry between spads 14523 & 14656 ( intake ) . all approaches to the fall area were dangered and breakered off . approx . fa ll dimensions were 30 ' long , 20 ' wide , 10 ' high .
a fully trained miner was injured when ee was using foot to spread rock dust . the following day ee felt pain in left knee . the injury was not a result of any compliance issues nor did it involve any protective devices .
after having incidents of back pain over several years , employee has had to cease working due to back pain . an mri performed on 7/15/2009 shows degenerative disc disease at the l4-l5 and l5-s1 and to a lesser degree in other areas . he said that this did not occur due to one particular event . he began missing work on 7/15/2009 .
employee was installing a waterline when he was struck in the forehead by a piece of metal causing a laceration which resulted in 12 stiches .
roof fall was discovered on the tailgate side on n-panel longwall set-up at approx . 11:53 pm between spads 14690 & 14691. after investigation it was determined that the roof fall was above the roof bolt anchorage zone . an msha field office supervisor was notified at 12:33 am . no personnel were affected , no equipment or ventilation controls were damaged .
ee was helping to chip out the mixer at carlin east batch plant , another ee was chiping and a piece of metal flew off of the bit . the metal lodged in his left cheeck .
ee was using a cutting torch to blow material off of a piece of metal when a foreign object went under his glasses into his elft eye . a small piece of sandstone was flushed from his left eye . ee went to the eye dr. & was diagnosed with a scratched cornea . he was given prescription eye drops , no days were lost . this is to report medical treatment only .
at approx 11:10 am smoke was discovered in the area just outside of the sugar run bottom dumpsters office . upon immediate investigation flames were observed coming out of the top of # 33 seal .
negilance of ee-he was standing were he should not of been he was in blind spot of operator .
while installing shelving at the south mill , keith pinched his finger in the locking device on the shelving unit . keith received 2 sutures .
ee was beating slag off with a hammer . slag flew up under his safety glass and into his left eye .
employee reported that he was experiencing numbness in his left hand and fingers . he went to thedoctor who concluded that he has carpal tunnel syndrome .
employee was cutting highline cable with cutters to make a splice , when cutter handles went together his thumb on his left hand was caught between the handles . resulting in a laceration that required stitches .
ee was in # 5 entry reclaiming wing curtain when he pulled the curtain down his back began to hurt . his back continued to give him problems and on 9-10-02 , he went for chiropractic adjustments
unloading pallets , vendor had pallets in middle of load and ee was stacking the pallets that were setting up on end . the pallet fell from twostacks high striking ee in the head & rt.shoulde
ee was coming down the steps to check zinc feed pump when he stepped onto slick floor and lost footing . ee strained left knee and ankle . employee will have 2 surgeries-1st one on 6-7-04. for the knee and 3 weeks later 2nd surgery on 6-28-04 operation on ankle . est lost time is 3.5 months
while loading a shot employee lifted a bag of 55 lb anfo from the tailgate of powder truck and turned to walk to next hole to load when he felt his lower back twinge .
ee stated that he was getting on the dozer to work . he stepped up onto push beam step where coal was piled on top of it . his foot slipped off causing him to hit his left knee against the step . knee started swell8ing about 3 weeks later . went to dr. on 1-3-2001. not reportable until lost time incurred on 1-31-2001 .
ee was installing a fuel tank on a tractor inside the truck shop , when lightening struck a nearby transformer on a power pole . the electrical charge traveled down the power pole and disbursed out through the ground , making contact with ee . he was transported to camc general hospital , evaluated , given fluids as a precaution and released back to duty .
claimant has filed a report of occupational hearing loss with wv workers compensation .
dragline oiler was removing the pump tray on 101 dragline to repair a leak . the tray was attached to the overhead crane when it was cut loose from the mounting brackets . the tray / motor shifted when it was free causing the oiler's arm to hit the unistrut that was supporting the electrical conduit cutting his r/forearm that required stitches .
employee had returned to work area on top of washer tank after lunch break where he had been working for several days . he went to get a drink of water as he felt weak & nauseated . a co-worker noticed him sitting down & checked on him . he stated he did not feel good . help was called for . the radiated heat fromt he tank surface was 200 degrees . the heat index was 100 degrees .
ee states he was in process of opening a door on the wet bag powder trailer as he took his hand open the door the handle suddenly came around and struck him on the upper lip , causing a lacer ation note : please see attached memo
ee was carrying a 5 gallon water bottle up the stairs to the control room in the plant . ee stated that he hurt his back .
employee lost footing while unloading tires from a box trailer . ee caught self with right hand injuring the palm and thumb .
the ee was sitting on the top of the crusher installing a piece of rubber around the bottom of the chute feeding the crusher . as the ee was bolting the piece , he felt a pain in his back .
a roof fall occurred 2800 ' outby face at spad 2334 in # 1 entry . it measured 18 ' wide x 50 ' long x 10 ' thick .
moving rocks on chute at herc plant , rocks slid landing on hand . possible fracture to left hand .
ee was using a 4.5 '' grinder to remove paint from metal channel when the grinder caught the metal and kicked back . the grinder caught the ee under the nose and cut it . the ee was not wearing his faceshield . improper use of hand power tools and ppe
was drilling holes in conveyor section when drillbit got bound in hole , causing drill motor to twist out of hand . drill hit back of hand .
employee was operating a log airdox model 482 scoop to clean loose coal in the # 7 entry when a piece of draw slate measuring 3 feet by 3 feet by 4 inches fell striking him on the head and shoulder . ee suffered an abrasion on the left side of his head and shoulder and a slight concussion .
roof fall at spad # 6 & 7 # 5 entry , north j-2 panel fall was 8'-10 ' high -- 18'-19 ' wide 22'-25 ' long . no injury and no equipment involved in fall .
while washing out f-9 tank , ee experienced problem with right arm . foreman advised ee to seek medical attention at emergency room . er physician determined problem to be tendonitis .
ee claims to have injured his back while driving a pin into the rub rail of a continuous miner . he was using a five pound sledge hammer .
while loading a piece of wood approx . 3 ' x 4 ' into the backhoe bucket , ee's rt glove caught on the wood , causing the panel to fall toward's ee . a protruding nail head cut his left forearm .
ee was on offside of bolter stated he was not paying attention when operator moved up to next row of bolts , bolter tire ran over his foot .
employee had a 16 penny nail in ee's right hand when ee heard ee's name called . when ee turned to see who had called ee , ee tripped over an air line and fell to the floor . the nail cut ee's left wrist requiring 7 stitches to close . employee was released with no restrictions and returned to work .
ee alleges that when he hopped up onto a rail car to release the brake handle his right knee backside popped . injury became reportable on monday , august 26 , 2002 due to impending knee surge ry .
unintentional roof fall . x-cut # 21 , 3 ep , # 3 entry . 25 ' long x 25 ' wide 8 ' high . 4-way intersection . mined 3-8-05 and bolted with 8 ' tr bolts . proped around . not going to clean up .
ee was removing a pail of gear lube from an areabetween unit 1 ball mills when he felt a pain in his back as he lifted the pail
ee was loosing a plug on a gear box when his hand slipped off of his wrench and his left elbow struck the edge of a belt guard on conveyor 40117. medical treatment was not required until 10-2 3-03 , at which time it became reportable . ee wasplaced on modified work .
ee was stacking rock when a piece scalled off and hit him on right forearm causing a laceration on arm . resulted in 3 stitches .
ee was getting out of the semi truck , stepping on unlevel ground and turned his ankle .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st right return in # 1 entry just outby # 15 crosscut . it was discovered around 2:00 pm on sunday may 14 , 2006. exact time of fall is unknown . mr. art gore , msha inspector , was notified at approx . 2:15 pm . the roof fall measured approx 14 ' wide , 35 ' long & approx 8 ' to 10 ' high . 1st right was evacuated & a plan developed to clean & bolt the fall .
ee was putting a 12 inch pipe in the 412 fusion machine and ee skin on the top of ee left ring finger was pinched between the pipe and a pin on the machine . a small laceration was the result and it required 3 stitches .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the 11 west longwall tailgate . the fall was between the face and the cribs in the # 3 entry of 10 west . the fall was 5 ' wide , 60 ' long and 4 ' high . the walkway was blocked .
while attempting to climb into a front end loader ( cat 966h ) , an employee slipped , hurting both knees . the employee was climbing in to the front end loader to load the hoppers with barite ore. the employee stated that as he was e entering the cab , his left leg slipped causing his right knee to impact the top of the cab landing .
utility person was moving a shovel , the shovel cable horn flipped over jerking the rope the utility person had a hold of which caused a pop in the employees left elbow area . an mri showed the bicep muscle was torn , on 08/29/2017 the employee was prescribed a brace , surgery is scheduled for approx . 09/05/17 . the employee has not missed any scheduled shifts until after surgery .
ee was watching a stainless steel pump impeller when he felt a foreign body in his left eye . no damage or impairment .
employee was removing a counter weight on a doosan d-25s forklift to investigate a steering column leak . the counter weight fell on top of employee's legs . employee recieved severe laceration to the inside left thigh resulting in muscle , tissue , and ligament damage . employee was transported to washakie county hospital for surgical repair .
ee was utilizing wire rope grabs to tighten cables . when he removed the grabs the cable slipped striking him in the left thigh . bruised thigh .
ee was pulling a 6ft . roof bolt out of some scooped up gob in no . 3 left when he felt something pull in his lower back .
ee was tightening screw w/ratchet , felt slight strain in lower stomach , but didn't feel it necessary to see dr. in march '07 he requested to see a dr , who thought it was a recurrence of pre-existing hernia . he referred ee to surgeon , who placed ee on app . 6 wks restricted duty . once surgeon's medical notes were rec 'd ( 4/5/07 ) & reviewed it was determined this was a new hernia .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in the # 1 entry 1 break inby spad # 1970 in an intersection . size of fall approximately 5 ' high 36 ' long18 ' wide . no injuries ; ventilation was not inter rupted ; no equipment was caught . the area had been supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin boltsfall will not be cleaned up .
ee stated that while he was getting out of jig manlift he stepped onto a piece of metal that was sticking up from the floor to using him to twist his ankle .
ee filled 50 lb bags on 7/13/02 . he asked to fill bags again on 7/18 but said left shoulder hurtfrom 7/13 . he refused medical treatment . he asked to fill bags in feb. 2003 but said left should er hurt with pain still from 7/13 . required him to see md on 2/28/03 . injury determined to be work related on 3/13/03 . injury under investigation by worker's comp . carrier .
during a part 50 audit and citation 9123765 being issued , this injury report is being filed . employee while pulling cover out of throat of a joy loader , the cover shifted and pinched employee's finger . cause of injury was awareness . compliance with rules/regs , ppe , mining equip/systems not a factor . miner proficiency may be a factor .
ee took his locomotive thru the dip after the lead motor and 5 supply cars cleared the top of the hill . when he got to bottom of dip he collided with 2 supply cars which came uncoupled from th e rear of the trip . ee jumped off his motor at same time of impact .
ee was pulling on a roof bolt to straighten it & strained his back .
employee turned , twisted right knee while stemming blast holes . dr.visit 9/13-rt knee strain-ortho visit 10/13- suggest surgery- wcofarizona requested 2nd opinion-12/13-ortho visit-suggested surgery- surgery on 1/16/14 : incident became a reportable incident on 1/17/14 .
the production hoist stopped operating . it could not be re-started . it was discovered that an overtravel switch at the bottom of the production shaft was damaged . the switch was replaced and the hoist began to operate again .
ee was repairing machine , cut string , knife slipped , cut hand .
opening junction boxes , which were overhead . dirt fell into eye . ee was wearing safety glasses .
miner was helping to remove a guard at the end of a raw grinding mill and said he felt some discomfort in his back but did not want medical attention at the time . 1/14/2011 miner was having some back spasms and requested to see a dr. dr diagnosed a sprain on the right side of his back .
employee was rushing down steps and tripped landing on his knees . the meployee bruised his left knee .
ee was bolting on left side of bolter using wrench . the bolt bent catching the middle finger on left hand between wrench and bolt causing laceration requiring 9 stitches .
ee was walking thru the plant , on his way to the unit # a182 . he slipped and fell down . on 7-11-00 ee asked to be takne to the dr. to have his back checked . off 7-12-00 .
ee was filling hydraulic tank on d8 dozer and slipped off contacting the ground .
employee was grinding on red screen when grinder suddenly shut off . ee saw that it had unplugged from the electric source , so he reached over and plugged it back in . the switch on the grinder was still on the on position , so when he pluggediy in , it turned back on and it made a small cuton his left leg just nelow the knee .
ee was repairing dozer 10/12/09 in the field during a rain , ee slipped in the mud and felt burning sensation in his right knee . 10/13/09 knee was swollen and stiff requested to see a dr. diagnosed with knee strain . follow-up visit with dr. mri was ordered showed a moderate partial thickness tear to the pcl . physical therapy was ordered 3 times a week for three weeks .
employee stated that they were taking the scrubber motor ductwork off the miner when it mashed a finger . they received 10 stitches to their ring finger .
the mill building passenger elevator stopped between the first and second floors with two employees inside . employees were going to be stuck for more than thirty minutes ; therefore , msha was called . the elevator contractor arrived on site , determined a control fuse had blown , replaced the fuse , and the employees were released . total time in elevator approximately 1hr 17 min .
ee was moving the continuous miner cable out of the roadway .
employee was heading down the longwall face from the tailgate towards the headgate . ee raised up while ee was walking and came into contact with the side of a shield . this resulted in employee receiving 7 stitches .
injured suffered elctrical burns while getting voltage readings on # 1 continuous miner receptacle . he was testing with a fluke megohmmeter model 1520 that was rated for 1000 volts .
the ee was putting a piece of stone into a pan & smashed his finger in between 2 pieces of rock . this cut his finger open . he was also wearing gloves .
slipped on icy condtions . went to dr on 2/12/01
ee states he was walking in prep plant when short piece of pipe was dislodged by workers & fell 10-12 ' pipe struck ee on hard hat & broke hat causing 2 lacerations on head which resulting in 17 stitches to close wounds
kuhntown elevator stopped 200 ' below ground level with 2 persons on board . the 2 men were removed safely 37 minutes later with no injuries to report . elevator was tested by schindler and put back into service with no reported causes .
employee was getting bolts from the parts bin underneath the kiln backspill area when a foreign body got in his right eye .
ee was standing on flat , level concrete surface talking with a coworker . she turned to walk away and did not lift her foot off the ground . she rolled her left ankle over , spraining the ankle . a hairline fracture and bone chip were detected in the xray .
employee was installing roof bolt when the roof plate spun lacerating his right thumb . employee recieved 7 stitches
employee committed an unsafe act by trying to light a cigarette from a piece of hot metal when he moved his hand in the path of an acetylene torch flame being used by another person cutting nuts off the ball mill while in the manlift .
ee was cutting frame off of overturned trailer when metal frame came loose and struck ee's hand .
# 1 unit # 7 entry in the last open cross cut . ee was loading glue on back of the roof bolter . while turning back around to put glue on the bolter , right side of head struck damaged pie pan on roof bolt . piece of pie pan went under the side of hard hat causing laceration three inches above right ear resulting in two staples .
the dragline mechanic was disposing of a metal race bearing approximately 15lbs dropping it 8 '' into a scrap metal bin . the dragline oiler walked by the bin at the same time . a sliver of steal flew out striking the dragline oiler in the rt . elblow . the sliver puntured the skin and had to be treated with medication to prevent infection .
ee was operating a scoop , cleaning the # 5 entry.he did not see a joint of 4 '' pvc pipe that he picked up in the scoop bucket . the pipe was caught between the rib and the scoop bucket . when he moved forward the pipe dislodged and went into the operators compartment & struck him in the rtforehead & eye area . ee sustained a fracture to the orbit of his right eye .
a roof fall occured in an intersection in the mill fork left section . the fall measured approximately 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' in height . this roof in this area is laminated mustone and cap rock . roof fall was in rock rooms and was not part of the working faces on this section .
employee was driving a pin with a sledgehammer . he missed the pin and the momentum of the hammer caused what was thought to be a shoulder strain . he was evaluated by a physician , diagnosed wit h shoulder tendonitis and returned to work without restriction . the injury got progressively worse and the employee had surgery on june 29 , 01 .
ee was shoveling head drive and rock fell from top , striking him in lower back .
ee was getting down from his loader and began to fall , he stuck his foot out to try and catch himself and struck his foot on a piece of metal . he stubbed his foot at the toe .
employees were using an elliot aerial platform to perform scaling work when the man basket they were in fell to the ground .
truck driver raised dump truck body to offload excess limestone . when the dump body was fully extended , the tractor and trailer tripped over onto its side . driver was inside vehicle at the tim e of capsize , and banged his knee .
employee was carrying a bucket of anfo to the holes . after loading a hole he was on the way back down on a slope and lost his footing . during the fall he caught himself and strained his left middle finger . went back to dr 9/26 and became a medical treatment injury .
employee picked up a can of paint & turned to set the paint on the tabel & his back popped .
ee was swinging a suspended beater-bar which beats the underside of the grizzley to vibrate & keep material flowing from hopper . minimal effort is required to swing the suspended bar/hammer . e e threw out right shoulder when swinging bar . right shoulder strain .
while marking the face of the slope , the mucker ran out of fuel and stalled . the mucker rolled & hit the face , throwing ee against the face .
an employee threw a used 4 1/2 '' grinding disk off an elevated platform & the disk bounced off a welding table & struck another employee in the right eye . ee went to the e.r . & was informed he had a scratch on his eyeball , approx . 3/4 '' x 1/16 '' & that he had a paralyzed pupil .
200 feet inby survey spad 27346 on mmu 006-0 , a 10 foot long by 8 foot wide section of mine roof fell above the anchorage point .
a roof fall occured in the active working section , mmu number 001-0. the fall occured one break inby survey spad 6+96 in the intersection of number 6 entry and into the crosscut from 6 entry to 5 entry .
the cable got caught under drag of shuttle car ( 300 dc ) and arched . as ee was getting out of car , he placed one hand on canopy handle and one foot on wet bottom , causing him to get a electrical shock .
employee works indoors in the chilton manufacturing center as a splitter operator . the employee was operating a splitter and a piece of rock fell off the table and struck foot . the employee was wearing steel toed boots with metatarsal protections .
ee stated that he was getting off of d-7 dozer when he slipped and caught himself with left hand and in doing so . he strained his left shoulder . this was reported as a first aid injury and a r equest was made on 6-23-03 to have a dr examine it . he was returned to work on modified duty .
ee was lifting/pulling on a broken screen to remove it from the screen deck when he began to experience lower back pain .
ee was running the offside of roofbolter , they were moving the bolt machine up to the next row , when a piece of rock fell from between the atrs and drill station , landed on his canopy and slid off , striking his right leg .
injured got on his knees to put a chain around a section of id discharge line . when he went to stand up he felt immedicate pain in right knee .
the alleged injury was to have occurred while the ee was drill a hole for a roof bolt . he had drilled his starter steel 2nd cahnged to his finisher 2nd pusher steel together . he started drill again when the steel broke at the coupling causing steel to contact the left elbow causing a miner laceration requiring 2 stitches to close .
ee was helping to change screens and was crawling around under the top screen when he felt his knee pop . ee placed on restricted duty .
employee was pushing large metal box into an mcc room when he experienced a strain in calf of left leg .
ee was removing fender from shuttle car and stained lower back .
employee was adjusting plastic on pallet stretch hooder machine . while adjusting the plastic his left thumb got pinched between the feed roller and the tension roller .
emp's left hand was injured while doing maintenance on a rock breaker . the emp's left hand was crushed between the rock breaker and hand rail . emp had 7 stitches .
ee was walking under an oak tree when he stumbled and lost his balance . as he tried to regain his balance his left foot turned sideways as it contacted the ground .
internal audit found need to report . ee was checking that the railcar was empty when flying dust got onto his left eye .
a grass fire discovered at 7:45 p.m. on the mine . a powerline broke and fell to the ground , igniting the grass . the fire was extinguished by jewett fire department at 8:05 p.m. some logs were smoldering but the active burning was out . the fire was reported at 8:16 p.m. because of the the smoldering logs .
a roof fall measuring 140 ' x 20 ' x 3-6 ' occurred in the no . 7 entry near spad 370. the fall will not be cleaned up . - section abandoned .
november 12 , 2014 at approx . 8 pm , hoist motor failed . electricians were called and found bad motor . mgset motor had to be replaced . repairs were completed on 11/13/2014 at 8:19 pm . hoist/shaft inspection were made and put back in service at that time .
he was loading round when anfo pot hose got away from him causing dust to be kicked up into air . the dust went up under his safety glasses & onto his l. eye lashes . he attempted to wipe his eye off with dirty gloves on & it pushed dust into eye . on 6/26/11 event occurred reported it & went to medic . on 7/11/2011 he went to doctor & rx was issued . no time missed .
the sealed area of the 3 right 1 main north apparently had an area subside . this caused a run-off pond on the surface to drain into the sealed area . it was estmated that the water contained in the pond was approximately 1 million gallons . the inundation of water into the sealed area caused water to be impounded behind the seals . the water was drained from behind the seals .
employee was working on the roof of an office building . taat roof was approx . 12 ' from the ground . a hi-power electrical line approx . 15 ' above the roof ran parrallel to the bldg . he was installing a piece of metal trim when he was hit by hi voltage . his clothing caught fire causing severe burns .
employee turned wheels of stockpile truck to the left for the rate of speed traveling , the load shifted causing truck to overturn on its right side . employee stated truck rolled over slowly and employee was not wearing his seatbelt as he was instructed to do .
while driving the waterpull to water roads , the employee experienced extreme bouncing and jerking around which caused lower back pain
employee was assisting maintenance in the rebuild of a piece of processing equipment , ee jammed left middle finger while positioning a component . the injury was diagnosed as a fracture .
ee was operating a john deere 650. he was moving backwards on a slope when all of a sudden , he hit a boulder ( rock ) which caused machine to jump into the air & land hard , sending pain througho ut his lower back .
hanging chain in kiln # 2. kiln is round and full of obstacles welded all over . ee slipped inside kiln and fell on anchors welded to kiln floor .
while steam cleaning the d-7 dozer , the steam cleaning hose became entangled on the dozer blade , causing the ee to lose control of the wand and spraying his right foot at the boot laces , hot w ater entered his boot burning his ankles .
ee was bolting the roof top-put drill steel against top-a loose piece of draw rock came loose hitting ee , causing a small cut above wrist and some swelling .
ee jarred back when operating loader and struck a rock .
a sample beaker of approx . 20 ml of 70 % nitric acid slipped out of her hands and struck the counter top , broke and splashed liquid on her arms and small amount on face .
ee was moving a screen rail off a pallet to storeage rack and it caught on the pallet . he pulled and felt a twinge in his lower back . he noted it but it go better . this month his lower back hurts and he thinks it is related . he reported it and we called for a dr.'s appoint to get a diagnosis . saw dr and given perscription for muscle relaxation . now reporting injury .
employee was installing rib bolts on cm miner in the 4west tailgate section and reached for a bit a rock fell striking right hand causing a fracture to index finger requiring plastic surgery . there were no compliance issues . it didn't involve job skills proficiency training or attitude ppe or protective devices no equipment involved . no other part 50 criteria applies
employee was remotely monitoring operation of crush/screen operation from a sitting position inside control room trailer . sharp pains felt in left side of chest . supervisor called and first aid was given assisted by msha personnel who were on property at that time . transported by ambulance to hospital . released same day return to full duty . diagnosis incomplete .
ee was measuring timbers to set to built a back-board for a new belt head-a piece of draw rock 16'x12'3 ' thick fell and hit him on the little finger on left hand-broke little finger and cut it about 10-12 sutures .
employee suffers from degenerative condition of the left knee which causes him pain from time to time , especially when he stands up from a kneeling or squating position . he experienced such an episode of pain while on the job on 2-16-00 when he stood up from a kneeling position as he was tightening the bolts on the fan shroud of o dozer .
ee was hammering in a survey stake when the top of the stake shattered due to a knot . when the stake shattered , the hammer made contact with her left hand causing a laceration which required t hree sutures .
employee was trapped by a rock for approximatley three hours , msha was notified of the entrapment immediately . medical treatment rendered was limited to pain management and observation for a contusion . employee was removing rock from jaw crusher that wouldn't crush , as he stood on the rock , it rolled onto his right ankle pinning him .
a haul truck was backed into the shovel for loading when material came off the dig face landing on the tail of the truck ' s box . this caused the truck to bounce , resulting in the driver hitting her nose on the steering wheel and stretching her back . on december 7th she received an epidural injection to relieve back pain .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred at xc 7 entry 7 of the 2 west panel intake . the fall is approximately 19 feet wide , 20 feet long , and 8 feet high .
ee was opening cab door of his loader , and slipped while standing on ladder and caught himself aggravating his right elbow . he was originally seen back in november , but it is still bothering so he went to a specialist today that injected his elbow and was prescribed pain management night time drugs now making it recordable . he is back in his loader with no restrictions .
employee was splitting stone with a hammer & chisel . he felt pain in his middle finger of his rt . hand . thinking the pain would go away , he did not immediately report it . a hard ball formed underneath the skin . prescribed 800 mg. of ibuprofin . released to full duty but referred to an orthopedic specialist for possible surgery .
ee was using a wrench to loosen the bolt from the pillar block bearing cap , the wrench slipped off and hit ee int he 2 front teeth , chipping them .
ee stepped off dozer to fuel , walked three steps , stepped on cleg of mud and twisted ankle .
ee's were moving the buggy cable , ee had his foot in a loop whey they pulled the cable it jerked his feet out from under him and he landed on his back . ee was diag . with a sprained ankle and given time off from work .
employee was removing a nut holding a crossbar for a ball mill hatch . when ee loosened the nut ee's finger got pinched between the bar and the nut . employee was taken to physician , received 4 stitches and placed on restricted duty . ( no forcible grip with right hand , no use of vibrating tools with right hand )
employee working on t-rolls in tunnell , in a hurry , tripped in tunnel falling into a piece of steel , lac rt little finger knuckel .
ee was on grader hand slipped on icy tire . caused him to loose his balance . slid down the tire like a slide landed on his feet on the ground and then he tumbled over .
employee was attempting to pull a flexable step down that was bent up under the bumper and while pulling , the metal base lacerated his hand .
ee was barring down clinker in the preheater transition chute when ee felt a `` pop '' in right elbow accompanied by numbness in hand and fingers . ee was treated by a physician for an injury/irritation of the ulnar nerve and placed on restricted duty pending clearance to return to full duty .
ee stated : on the morning of 8-14-01 , when he awoke there was a knot on the right side of his groin area , he feels this was the result of pulling/lifting on the continuous miner cable the prev ious day .
a mine fire occurred at the 2 east mains # 3 belt drive that was not extinguished within 30 minutes . approx 1800 ft of entry was damaged along with conveyer belt , structure , a belt drive and a belt take up unit .
employee performed work on the cat 910 parking brake and was testing it to see if the parking brake would hold . he was operating the cat 910 on or near an incline . the machine overturned . he w as found lying beside the machine . he sustained fatal internal injuries .
in the belt entry of # 1 longwall a fall had taken place which was not above anchorage . as the longwall progressed through the fall area another fall took place that fell from the tips of the # 1 and # 2 shield outby with rock falling on to the crusher part of the stageloader . no injuries occurred .
employee was operating the dryer plant when qc requested a sample . employee went to get a sample from 4 '' dia . pipe designated in the sampling plant . he was unable to obtain a sample . he removed a 1 '' diameter bolt , put his right index finger up into a moving screw ; his finger was taken off to the first joint by the screw .
employee was operating manlift and caught 2 fingers of his right hand between the guard covering the lift controls and the back . injury resulted in laceration requiring stitches .
member was shoveling the hi-line tray out on an addcar . he placed his right foot against the end of the guide and it got caught between the guide and the pusher jack .
unintentional roof fall . fall was 50 ' long , 18 ' wide and 6 ' high . type of support : 4 ' resins bolts . # 2 entry ( neutral ent ) 1 bk outby spad # 10644 .
upon recept of doctor bills charged to worker's comp . we questioned employee and he claimed to have pulled a muscle in his chest while climbingonto drill .
victim stated while stepping up on a welder to check the diesel level , he slipped & fell off thewelder & then hit his knee .
ee was lifting a pallet ( approx 40 lb . ) from roller bed . due to past back problems , ee may have overcompensated during lift and strained his shoulder . ee did not lose any work days after accident . ee has experienced discomfort in shoulder and has opted to have surgery on shoulder . lost workdays have begun on first lost day due to that surgery .
employee was lifting tools from tool box . a can of `` electraclean '' degreaser was accidentally punctured and sprayed into face and eyes .
employee was using a utility knife to cut a piece of conveyor belting to be used as an airwall when the knife slipped cutting his right lower leg .
# 4 belt slipped in the head drive , causing minor smoke , before the drive shut off . ee stated that the smell caused him to be sick to his stomach . ee worked the remainder of his shift and went to the doctor the following morning .
ee was using a hammer to drive in a wedge over the cover on a drain and rinse screen . as he was making a strike , the hammer struck an overhead beam , causing the hammer to change direction and strike his left index finger . sutures were required to close the wound .
ee stated he was walking down a ramp when he slipped on some loosely ground material and fell to his knee . he received 6 sutures . ee admitted he has a bad hip and is awaiting hip replacement .
injured was stepping off of a conveyor when his footing gave way causing him to fall forward . hehit his shin on a sharp corner causing laceration that required stiches .
ee was picking a stone from a conveyor into a hopper when he pulled his little finger on left hand between the stone and a safety handrail . post accident drug test revealed positive result . ee was terminated as a result of drug test .
assembling pipeling in river and ring to attach pipeline together , fell on hand and broke thumb .
the ee bent half-way over with the intention of picking up a crib and felt pain in his low back .
two employees were moving an airslide when one of the employee's hands slipped , causing his finger to be caught between the lower section of the airslide and the grating . employee was wearing gloves when the injury occurred .
ee pushed the last bag down the line for the pallet and fingers got caught between the belt and rollers .
this ee informed his supervisor of injury in dec. 2001 but declined medical treatment . no action was taken by this ee until 8/27/02 , when injury caused him to stop working . injury reports comp leted and submitted to this office 9/20/02 . medical treatment requested by dr. on sept. 4th and sept. 27th , 2002. no previous reports were given to this office prior to the above date.lt . dut
roof failure in between intersection 6 abd 7 entry of 3 left off 1 left mains between ss 357 and 367. no equipment or personnel involved , ventilation was not affected .
as the continuous miner was loading the end cut of the piller block a pillar fall occurred catching the miner during retreat mining . location was at ss # 1322 # 6 heading of the # 1 panel off the # 2 ne mains .
mechanic was helping install tracks back on a drill , watching the track and idler for clearance , ee heard a pop , then felt something hit above left eye . ee didn't realize was hurt until ee wiped face and saw blood . after ee got home , felt something there , went to pcp and a small piece of metal was removed . pcp gave ee a day off work .
a lid from a dredge pump fell on ee's finger ee was taking an inspection cover off dredge pump the cover ( lid ) slipped & fell on his finger mashing it .
employee sustained a laceration to inside of right elbow and back of right hand while pulling a loaded train into the crude ore dump pocket at the evtac plant . ee's arm was out of the window of the locomotive and was pinched between the locomotive cab and a trapping machine in the dump pocket .
injured employee was walking by an area where other employees were doing a belt splice . a metal fragment flew out from the ginding and entered the injured employee's eye .
while replacing a compressor on a chiller , a beam being used for hoisting slid off of its crossmembers . the beam slide into the leg of one of the workers causing a laceration to the lower leg .
two emp were drilling a hole in the mine floor with a hydraulic drill . the drill bit caught causing 1 emp to stumble & lose grip on the handle of the drill . the drill spun causing emp hand to become caught in the hand guard with emp hand stuck on the trigger . this emp . fell into conveyor feeder . this emp . taken to dr. and placed on restrictions .
a roof fall was found at 1 seam mains brk . 26 between 3 & 4 entry , the fall was approx.5'x20'x100 ' the area has been dangered and sealed off . the information was called to the safety director at 2:05 pm .
ee was operating the continuous miner , making a clean-up run on the right side of entry ( curtain side ) . he was stooped down and a piece of rock slid off rib , striking him on lower left side of back . went to dr. on 3-8-06. went back to dr. on 3-13-06 .
ee missed last step of stairs while descending a flight . strained knee .
ee was unloading a large load of 6 '' metal pipe from a trailer . he cut metal stakes on one side of the load using temporary support . then , he cut cross chains on the other side causing uprig hts to snap . the load fell on ee .
pulling a transmission out from a kress truck . the drive line guards fell off the module and landed on my left upper knee . pushed it over my ankle to the floor .
ee was attempting to remove a hydraulic hose from 36031 backhoe . the bolts securing the hose were not easily accessible & this prevented him from being able to use an impact wrench . he ended u p using a break over bar & cheater pipe . as he was applying downward pressure , his hands slipped off the cheater pipe & it sprang upward & hit him in the mouth . the impact lacerated his lip &
moving a wooden block to secure a piece of equipment and ee stepped into a rut causing ee to drop block of wood on left foot . per phone call the foot was broken .
a roof fall occurred in the 2 north section off the 2 mains east in the # 10 entry # 2 x-cut . the fall was 44 ' long 18 ' wide and 9-12 ' height . 6'-8 ' & 12 ' tension rebar bolts
employee was installing hoses on hyd tank when felt pain in sholder/neck area . went to doctor for condition on 04/04/06 ; put on restricted duty .
employee tripped in loose rockdust & rocks at no.7 seal at 7-4 project & hurt his right knee .
employee was lifting the d ring on a running line to throw it over a timberhead . the rope was heavy and the employee jerked it to try to raise the line . the employee felt pain in his right sho ulder .
ee was prying copper plate off breaker bar n crusher with pry bar , pry bar slipped and ee hit left elbow .
north 5 18 block # 8 heading 4 way intersection mmu 004 . 7'high x 20'wide x 20'long .
ee was in the process pulling himself onto a small shed to hoist it out of place w/a crane . the crane's cable abruptly swung right & back left jarring ee from his grip . ee fell approximately 4 - 6 feet landing on his right hand . the impact resulted in a broken right wrist .
rock fall at spad 2687 . 70 ' x 15 ' x 3 ' high . ' one side of fall was a slip . cleaned rock & bolted place .
as ee was advancing slider tube towards face he felt something pull in left shoulder .
employee was changing a bulb out on a drop light . he installed a 12v bulb instead of the 110v and the bulb exploded causing debries into his right eye
the ie , a coal hauler operator , was found laying on the ground holding himself up by his left elbow . the ie was in xc 2-1 at station # 21+15 , when he was struck by a rock , that fell out between the roof bolts , and struck him on top of the head . the rock measured 10'l x 3'w x 0-11 '' thick , and fell from a height of 7'11 '' .
the fire boss was making his examination when he discovered more air than usual on the belt lineof the old section and when he investigated he found a roof fall . the fall was 16 ft wide 16 ft long and 7-8 ft high . the area was supported with 6 ft tension rebar .
ee was installing an outside troughing roller on a conveyer belt . i slipped and pinched finger to the roller frame . he sought first aid treatment for a bruise but later a fracture was discover ed .
ee received a hearing test 9/4/03 . results of the test was received from audiologist dr dean harris 9-23-03 stating the ee has shown a significant shift in hearing from either the baseline hea ring test or the last annual test .
injured employee was removing a shaft from a speed reducer . as he drew the shaft out , he nipped the tips of three fingers on his right hand cutting the tip of his r middle finger , treated on site , sent to dr. for further evaluation where he received a few stitches on his fingertip and placed on left handed duty only until follow-up appt on 7-14
employee was rockdusting the face area using a rock dust hose . he stepped on a lump of coal andfelt something pop . diagnosed on 9/5/00 as a fractured ankle .
ee bent to grip lid and started to lift up to close & felt a sharp pain in left lower back . lid was on top of rail car .
a roof fall occurred in the # 7 entry , # 2 unit xcut 11. in the 1st eas off of the 1st north submain . l 25 ' x w 18 ' x t 11 ' . the roof was bolted with 10 ' double lock bolts .
maint techs were changing out sub adapter as retainer was broken at the hex head . welder cut old sub adapter off and techs proceeded to remove pin with pin punch and sledge hammer . the tech held the pin punch with left hand on the end of handle and right hand on the handle near the punch . the sledge hammer glanced off of the punch striking employee's right index finger and knuckle .
unintentional rock fall in # 1 entry intersectionon # 27 break on 004 mmu . fall was cribbed & dangered off .
employee was assisting in putting a metal guard over a hydraulic jack on the take up on the 1 north b belt drive . while sliding the guard into place it moved unexpectedly and slid off the frame and caught the injured employees hand between the guard and the frame . this caused lacerations to both middle and ring fingers on ee's left hand .
standing on # 270 shield started pushing tailgate drive out , foot slipped off shield toe and instead of pushing the pan it advanced and caught his left foot . ppe was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , mining equipment/system was a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
while working in the area of tank 5 & 6 , ee was positioning a new water chute in place , when he removed the come-a-long on his side and the chute dropped and crushed his right hand .
ee alleges that while operating bobcat , the shovel caught on rebar sticking out of the ground causing jarring motion , leading to low back pain .
the ee was dragging a 1 inch was down hose thru 1st floor of plant . the hose hung on a motor base . the ee felt pain in right side diagnosed with hernia .
employee was moving a 55-gal . drum and twisted his back in the process . as he twisted he felt a pain in his back . injury is still bothering him , so medical attention was sought . now an mri is scheduled , became reportable on 8/10/2004 .
the ee developed carpal tunnel in his left & rt.hands due to repetitive motion . this claim in not yet determined by workers comp . to be worked related .
unintentional roof fall occurred in # 3 entry of 005-0 mmu .
ee was walking down the catwalk towards the center of a well and turned toward a trash barrel . the wind blew something from the lid into his eye .
injured was striking a punch with a hammer and apiece of the punch chipped off and punctured into the injured's thumb . injured had to seek med attention in that 3 sutures were required to clos e the wound .
ee was handing piece of drill steel across roof drill when roof drill operator traummed drill forward , running over ee right foot .
ee was performing maintenance activ when his coveralls caught fire from being too close to portable propane space heater . burning coveralls caused the ee pants to catch fire & melt . ee recd 2n d deg burns on his buttocks . space heater was inwork area because of excessilvy cold temps . 30degrees when ee began shift
number 2 hoist had a hydraulic break . msha was notified at 9:42 pm. , miners evacuated 9:30 am , and evacuation was complete at 9:40 am . hydraulic was repaired . tested , and miners returned underground at 1:00 am .
alledged incident was to have occurred while this ee was setting down a water pump after carrying it . he claims to have twisted his back and pulled muscles . cause of this injury was proper lifting techniques . compliance with rules/regs is not a factor , miner proficidency a factor , personnel protective equipment was not a factor , mining equip/system was not a factor .
ee stated : was roof bolting and pulled left shoulder out of socket .
ee was trying to rotate a plugged pin-mill feeder with a pipe wrench on the shaft when it broke free , causing his left middle finger to get caught between the wrench and feeder . it required 3 stitches to close the laceration and there was no lost time from work .
he was using a cut off bar to uncouple two motors . the coupler were aon a bind , when they came uncoupled he caught his left ring finger between the cut off bar and the ear on the motor motor causing a laceration requiring 5 sutures .
the oakdale portal elevator was inoperable from 7:45 am to 12:25 pm . 1 employee was entrapped from 7:45 am to 8:15 am . no injuries . door switch caused contactor overload . repairs made by schindlers . elevator returned to service at 12:25 pm .
employee was panning 3rxc in panel m08 . he was lining up to match the left pan to the right panbefore drilling hole . the left pan got out of line so he lowered the boom of machine to realign ; pan fell striking him on right forearm .
ee was manually adjusting a feed positioner ( 34 fp 02 ) and caught his r thumb between the rail and the chute . initially only fa applied . med evaluation on 11/24 for swelling , reduced by incision .
ee was removing hose from steam cleaner . released pressure from water line . residual water in hose contacted ee's hand when ee disconnected hose .
on 05/03/07 , ee was cutting coal on mmu 003 in the # 8 left entry . while cutting coal , a rock fell from the roof between the rib & the first roof bolt . the rock was approx . 3 ' wide x 7 ' long x 2 '' to 3 '' thick . it hit him on the head & shoulders & rode him to the ground . the fall of rock caused a compressed disc & fracture to the lower back .
ee was lifting 5 gallon buckets of media to load # 3 tube mill , pulled area in back , resulted in restricted duty .
the brakes failed causing us to wreck . ee had contusion to head , broken , torn spleen , broken ribs .
opened front window of komatsu to overhead position and caught little finger in latch mechanism .
ee was installing a draw head onto a flat car when the accident occurred . as he was installing the pin , between the drawhead & flatcar , the pin smashed his left middle finger . ee went to the hospital where he received stitches .
member was prying up on a shuttle car tire using a slate bar . the slate bar slipped and the shuttle car tire fell on members left leg . note : ee worked until 5/22/09 and completed his shift .
x-cut 2 - 1 at 7 brk s m section # 4 panel fall is approx 7 ' - 9 ' high , 17 ' wide & approx 45 ' long . cover 390 ' area bolted with 6 ' resin bolts & hole boards . a slip at 8 ' was visible after fall occurred . x-cut will not be cleaned up . called state & federal hotlines .
ee was standing by the belt . a loader was pulling the belt . the chain broke and the chian hit him on . the hand breaking the index finger on his left hand . they were putting in a new belt line .
the ee was hanging rib mesh underground . he was looking at the roof and stepped on a piece of coal , which caused him to fall to the ground and land on his left knee .
ee was attempting to connect a short section of flexible four inch bulk hose to a rail car . the hose section was short which made it less flexible . when ee attempted to bend the hose into the connecting fitting , the hose recoiled causing ee to fall to the same level ( ground ) .
employee was stacking dust on pallet and a 50 lb bag of dust came off assembly , employee caught bag and went to swing it onto the pallet and tripped and caught self with left arm .
injured reported on 9/9/02 , while at the doctor's office , that he thought he hurt his right shoulder while at work . he didn't know when , where , or how . his shoulder started hurting on the nigh t of 9/7/02 and worsened on 9/9 . he went to the doctor and received medication and therapy . having mri on 9/13 . had surgery on both shoulders previously . worker's comp . says reocurrance .
injured employee was attempting to seal a leaking port hole on a cement silo . cement dust got under or around ee's safety glasses and into ee's eyes . ee rinsed ee's eyes thoroughly , but an hour later felt there was still dust or a scratch in ee's left eye so ee was taken to the doctor for additional care . ee received prescription eye drops for ee's left eye .
ee was running skiploader moving dust , it was windy and dust flew into ee's left eye .
employee exiting truck lost footing/balance letting go of ladder with right hand leaving left hand on railing briefly supporting body weight . employee taken directly to local medical center . injuries recieved ; straining of three fingers on left hand , left wrist , and left shoulder . employee released back to work on 5/05/2010 under limited duty , with therapy .
ee was prying on ripper chain with pry bar . the bar slipped and ee felt pain in his right elbow . ee did not miss any regular shifts until 11/30/04 . ee was restricted from working overtime .
ee was unbinding timbers to load on loadboy . when the last bind snapped it landed on his leg .
roof fall on the 2nd panel west off of the 3rd south 0+60 room # 6. the intersection was bolted with 5ft resin bolts that have fallen out . this area will not be cleaned up and does not influence the passage of men or the air course . the fall measured 60ft long , 19ft wide and 6.5 in thinkness .
weather was clear . ee was getting out of 1845 skidloader & twisted his ankle on bucket . co-worker was standing on a screen catwalk , noticed ee limping & not in control of his balance . thru hand gestures ee indicated he 'd twisted his ankle . co-worker went to help him after finishing his task . ee said he twisted his foot & was dizzy trying to gain his footing .
ee was using a rebar to unplug a chute when his hand slipped and he cut his finger on the edge of the chute requiring stitches .
ee was walking and went to step up onto concrete pad ( 26 '' off ground ) when he slipped , turning his ankle . resulted in a hairline fracture .
the faces in 28k north & south were shot at 6:30 am . when the fire boss crew went undergroung to inspect the faces , they found gas discharging from several blast holes , and the gas was burning . after checking co and methane levels . supervison extinguished the flames . no reignation occured .
filing under protest to comply with a citation from msha . an employee was tramming a motor through the south mains dip . an unattended motor that was up the hill drifted down and caused the collision . the following were not a factor : skills , proficiency , training and protective devices . rules , regs and mining equipment were a factor .
ee was pulling self out of a rail car and heard shoulder pop . ee did not seek medical attention until 10/24/2017 . we are filing this 11/2/2017 within the 10 day reporting window .
a roof fall was discovered on the # 2 section , # 8 entry , 1 crosscut out by spad # 464. the fall measures approx . 80 ft. long by 20 ft. wide by 6 ft. high . no injuries resulted from this fall .
ee was loading 1 1/2 '' conduit in the back of a truck when a piece of conduit rolled off the top of the pile smashing fifth digit of right hand between conduit and bed of truck .
while walking to next grease point on the crusher the ee stepped into a hole & strained his knee . note : worker was originally injured 2/24/02 7001 report sent 2/18/02
unplanned roof fall in 6th ne rooms 23 and 24. spad # 2698. the fall is 80 ' long and 20 ' wide and 3 1/2 ' - 4 ' high . the roof was bolted with 3 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was operating a continuous miner & was in the process of cleaning up the # 8 heading . he was standing between the 3rd & 4th row of bolts from the face when a piece of draw rock fell from between the bolts striking him on the head & coming to rest on his rt . foot . this action caused a fracture of 2 of his toes on his rt . foot . the rock measured 52 '' long x 23 '' wide x 2 '' thick .
miner opr . started put his knee down on mine floor , and bumped his knee on a rock .
ee filed an alledged occupational pneumoniosis claim on 11/24/08 , claim no . 2008036353. received notice on 12/5/08 .
ee was cleaning around secondary-loading material in the wheel barrow pushing wheel barrow : foot slipped out from under him-fell on his bottom and hit head on concrete .
ee states that while removing nut off packing gland she strained right wrist she was treated by nurse 4x between dec & may . still having pain was sent to dr. on 5/9/01 . she was given rx medici ne & plastic wrist splint by dr .
an unintentional , non-injury roof fall occurred on the 002 section # 5 , one break in by spad 3862 that measured 25 ' wide x 25 ' long & 10 ' high . area was timbered off , bolts have been installed , jacks & beams set & 16 ' roof bolts installed in adjacent entries .
ee was washing built up material from underneath a screen crushr , conveyor belt combination with a high pressure water hose , he was struck int he forehead over the left eye with a stone , which resulted in an abrasion and swelling to forehead .
employee was working with a crew of 6 people unloading bags of anfo and saran explosives from the container to the magazine container when he started to feel discomfort in his back . he continued working and thought that the discomfort would go away . by the end of the work day employees lower back ached . employee sought medical attention on 11/28/08 .
employee was helping make a belt splice and using a power rivit driver installation tool , and got smoke/residue in his eye . report submitted to terminate citation # 7040533
employee was inside vsi crusher changing shoes out . shoes have to be lowered in from the top by a space in crusher , you can not step while turning your body , all you can do is twist youe torso . ee didn't report this until 6-26-01 .
ee ( retired ) received a workmans compensation award for occupational pneumoconioses
our employee was attempting to step off trailer onto truck chassis when knee bucked , causing ee to fall to the ground . this resulted in a fracture of the shaft of the right fibula .
ee was cleaning compact wheel . he hit his finger with hammer when his hand slipped from chisel .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 8 return air entry 2 , 900 ' outby the active section at spad # 3485. the fall did not affect passage of men or air flow . the fall measured 25 ' long , 20'wide and 4'-6 ' high .
a roof fall was found in the unit 1 travelway at x-cut # 7. our plan is to reroute the travelway , and all entries to the fall will be propped and cribbed .
while putting a waterline together , employee tightened a clamp with ratchet and the ratchet slipped causing him to cut his right little finger .
using 2 come alongs to lift tilt cylinder for installation . cylinder slipped through chain on 1 comealong and fell . left thumb was caught in the chain of the other come along causing a laceration
ee was assisting another ee with a bearing housing . the 7 1/2 '' bearing housing was being manually lifted into position when ee felt pain in lower back .
while operating # 41 992 k cat wheel loader loading production haul trucks , the injured employee was observed by one of the truck drivers as being in a stroke like condition .
an unintentional fall occurred in the 1st n. submains . the fall was 80 ' x 18 ' x 8 ' . the fall fell in the 24+20 ' intersection and went outby for 80 ' .
was bolting # 5 heading when a rock fell from top striking ee in right leg .
the ee stated he was replacing bottom rollers on the section belt inside the take up when he stepped on the cross member he slipped & twisted his right knee .
haul truck dumped load of rock into crusher , bigrock slid down into ( r ) front side of crusher cab striking corner . it knocked employee againstwindow causing pain in right shoulder , upper and lower back . lost time began 11/05/01 .
on november 23 , 2016 , at the start of day shift an underground miner entered the 2-5551 s to retrieve a can of paint . as ee was doing the work place inspection while entering this area , ee noticed a fall of ground and called the supervisor .
non-intentional , non-injury roof fall occurred in the # 1 entry 90 ' inby spad 1815 in the intersection . fall measured 19 ' wide by 19 ' long x 7 ' - 8 ' high . ventilation was not affected . fall will be cleaned up and area supported by cribs .
ee was striking one hammer with another hammer when a piece chipped off and struck ee in rt.leg . ee had metal removed 9-20-02 , requiring 4 stitches .
employee was working under walkway and looked up , dirt from the walkway above fell and got into employee's right eye . he repeatedly flushed his eye , was examined by an emt then taken to the clinic and was given a prescription , and returned to work .
ee was lowering a submersible pump into a prexipator tank when he stopped and allowed it to free fall . the pump started to free fall too fast when he attempted to flip the stop back . unsuccess ful , he then tried to grab the crank handle whenthe jammed his thumb . on 1-5-01 , ee had surgery on his right thumb .
inj was tightening bolts on a clamp with an impact wrench when the wrench slipped off bolt striking inj's left forearm . saw physician 2/7/05
in the process of removing a saddle stand forn an 18 '' rubber pipe a millwright got his right hand and left thumb caught between the saddle and the pipe causing a fracture , contusions and lacer ations .
while on break , ee attempted to light an illegal firework . witnesses state as the firework exited the pipe launcher , it exploded and struck him in the chest . the dupage county bomb squad and r omeoville police department investigated this incident immediately and confiscated all the illegal devices before allowing the company to perform an investigation .
the ee was trying to straighten out a 16 foot calbe bolt when he slipped and twisted his back .
ee was hand tightening a bolt into a final drive flange on a final drive . his index finger was cut above the knuckle by a sharp edge on the flange . ( index finger right hand three stitches . )
ee's left shoulder has been hurting for several months . today he went to dr sisk who gave him an injection of cortizone and requested that ee be assigned to light duty for ten days .
ee was pushing a rollback chute when he felt a strain in his right shoulder and neck .
ee was changing a fuse-forgetting he had not turned off the leectricity . he put his finger in the fuse hole and got zapped with 440 volts of electricity .
ee was unloading scoop outside that had water line on it , when he stepped on a piece of hiline cable laying on ground-twisted his right ankle . went to dr an dmissed 1 shift .
ee was removing saw wires from a block of granite that had been sawn when the end of the roughback broke free , fell and hit ee on the neck causing a laceration , and ee's right hand causing a contusion .
the ee was using a chain ratchet to pull bracket back in place . the ratchet chain slipped causing material to hit the side of the injured employee's face and eye .
the area where ee was bolting had some loose and flakey draw rock . he was attempting to put two drill steels together and apparently a loose piece of rock moved or fell and made him try to juke out of the way . somehow his hand became caught between the steels and he ripped his hand out from between them .
employee was assisting maintenance during kiln outaag , replacing belts on # 1 cooler fan . employee caught middle , left finger between belt & sheave . he was seen by a dr. who cleaned & bandaged the wound . an x-ray revelased a fracture between the tip of his finger & his 1st knuckle . no stitches were required . employee was given a tetanus shot & returned to restricted duty .
the roof started working at spad # 22+20 on mmu 006. shortly after the roof started working it fell in entry numb 8. the fall was approximately 18 feet wide x 100 feet long x 12 feet high . the fall was at 11:34 a.m. and was called in at 11:47 a.m .
ee tripped over 3 ' waterhose after filling water tank straining his upper back . ee received vicoden from dr making this reportable .
found fall in # 1 # 2 intersection 4 breaks inside on he shift monday morning 140 ft outby face .
ee was setting timbers and cut his right thumb on a sharp rock .
employee was bagging 50 lb bags .
ee was grabbing a tire at the discharge end of the tire head belt into kiln , with a grab hook the tire fell pulling his right hand forward & striking it against the handrail . he was taken to rmc where he was treated for a laceration & slight fracture to little finger on his rightr hand released to work
project includes installation of belt structure -- ee was using a stoper drill in the roof , felt pain in lower right back , he thought it was a kidney stone . ee went to his doctor & was told it was not kidney stones , but a back injury .
employee was using a pry bar to align bolt holeson an air slide . the pry bar slipped and grazed his cheek causing a laceration requiring stitch-es .
methane bleeder encountered ; methane ignition aledged to occur . extinguished quickly ; no injury or damage . no citations issued . note : this was phoned in to the 800 # for msha .
at ~ 10:15pm 2/7/09 a natural gas explosion/fire severely damaged the lab and office bldg . natural gas leaked from either a heater or gas supply line to the heater . no injuries or fatalities resulted from the incident . the adjacent cemnet plant heard the explosion , called the fire dept . and made the first msha notice . a second msha notice was made by systech to ( 800 ) 746-1553 .
occupational hearing loss claim . claim recieved 1/18/02 .
ee was grinding on the ware metal of the volvo loader bucket . he was wearing safety glasses and a shield , but he was grinding a piece over his head and got a metal fragment in his left eye .
employee was removing a tail shaft wheel at unit 2 gate . when the wheel did not come loose , the employee used wedges to help pry . when the wheel did come loose , it hit the employee in the left face and shoulder , resulting in stiches to lip and cheek . employee returned to work for next scheduled shift .
the ee stated he and a coworker were delivering a bundle of 2 '' x 8 '' x 14 ' wood headers to a crosscut in the 2 east mains section by use of a battery powered scoop . he got in the scoop bucket to unhook the chain holding the bundle . he had his left hand resting on the headers , bent over with his right hand to unhook the chain when a piece of coal rib ( 6 '' x12 '' x14 '' ) fell , striking hand
while walking on leach dump , injured tripped and caught himself , resulting in a lower back muscle strain . on 3/14/01 the injured felt the lower back tighten . the dr prescribed physical therapy on 3/14/01 , making this incident reportable .
ee was attempting to insert 8 '' plastic pipe into the pipe fuser . as the pipe slid forward , ee got right little finger between the pipe and the fuser . finger was lacerated requiring stitches at the emergency room
employee was replacing the cap on his bottle of juice and felt a pop in his wrist . an emt examined him , recommended x-ray at er . employee stated he preferred to see his md . on 10/26 , employee notified the company he had been referred to an orthopedic doctor and taken off work . on-going .
pouring oil in the used oil tank , twisted lower left arm . ( april 16 , 2009 went to dr for check up on left elbow no follow up necessary and no restriction ) . by 320091130025
a roof fall was found when the weekly examiner was walking the intake air course for the 1 rt 2west ; fall was in the block between x cut 268.25 # 7 entry . it was 30 ' x 18 ' x 5 ' high ; it was in an outby area & did not affect ventilation or cause property damage , but did block primary es-cape route . the route was moved to # 6 entry ; itwas caused by a slip in the sandstone .
employee was washing shields down . shear was tramming to tailgate . rock was in bibby chain when shear was tramming . it pulled rock between chain and pan . rock broke off , struck employee over the right eye . stitches were required .
2 breaks inby # 2367 , 70 ft long 16 ft wide 3 1/2 ft thick . will bolt with 6 ft fully grouted .
ee has had recurring shoulder pain from an old injury & has been under a chiropractor care he began losing time 12/28/00
ee strained l. shoulder while throwing a grappl-ing hook to fish out a cable in the lake .
the elevator at patterson creek portal was out of service due to a malfunction with the slow down switches . the elevator was reset and returned to normal service .
ee was taking d-7 to shop to fuel & service . he had to travel down a steep incline at back of raw material shed . ee had the dozer in a high gear as he went down steep incline , the blade went i nto ground stopping the equipment . ee's head hit the windshield busting the glass & injured ee .
ee was taking a 2.5 gallon can of oil off of a stack , turned and felt pain and a pop in his lower back .
mechanic was performing service work on machine . while pulling on hydrolic hose , he pulled a muscle in his right shoulder .
5-a section supply track - ee was transferring belt structure from a rail carrier to a uni-trac and caught his right thumb between two pieces of belt structure .
ee claims that while lifting a trash bag from a trash container , felt pain to left groin area . ee stated trash bag was primarily filled with paper products and not very heavy . ee was initially diagnosed with a muscle strain and continued to work . hernia operation on 3/28/00 .
employee was moving fully loaded 55 gal drums from the lowere grinder floor . employee was trying to roll the drum from a tight area and dropped the drum on his foot . the drum hit his foot on the area above his steel toe .
a roof fall occured in the 1st north main in the # 4 entry ( supply road ) at spad # 65+10 inby to spad # 66+50 . the fall was 120'long x 18 1/2 ' wide x 6'high .
ee was working on roofbolter was bent over stab jack when piece of draw rock ( 3'x 3'x 1-2 '' ) fell out between roof bolts striking him on back ( upper ) of shoulder ( right ) .l
packaging operator was struck on palm of right hand by b4 bulk bagger arm when the bolts holding the bulk bagger arm broke allowing bagger arm to move in downward motion . operator received a puncture wound to palm of right hand requiring 6 stitches . employee reported back to work without lost time on restricted duty .
the man was assisting in preparing to install a roof strp . the strap slid and struck the man on the chin .
ee was cutting a cut of coal in 5 ' x-cut and a piece of bit broke off and came back hitting him in the left side of the neck that resulted in laceration ( 4sutures ) . ( the mine was down from 11/19/09 till 11/30/09 fro the holiday ) .
ee was welding and he struck his finger with a hot welding rod .
ee attempted to reinstall an a/c vent louver . ee placed fingers beside and over the edge of the louver trying to hold the screw so ee could screw the louver back on . the louver abruptly turned resulting in right middle finger and right ring finger to make contact with the squirrel cage fan . ee suffered a laceration and received 5 stitches to the right 3rd finger .
ee stated that he was putting up a bolt in the face of # 7 entry as he touched the top with his drill steel , a rock fell from the top , striking his upper arm . the ee suffered a laceration that required sutures .
ee was spraying penetrating oil on rusted bolts , lost footing fell approx . 8 ' striking back on frame of conveyor on the way to ground .
employee was operating a roof bolter when ee tried to catch drill steel that was falling out of hole and struck left hand against the drill pot causing left pinky finger to become dislocated . this did not result in any lost or restricted days .
a rooffall in the 7 west entrys at # 39 xcut in # 3 entry measuring 40'x 20'x 5 ' . the area was mined in nov 2002 and supported with 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts & was caused by a hidden slip
motor generator set that generates direct current power for the production/man hoist would not synchronize . problem appears to be temperature related . item was reported to dustin creley who was on-site doing quarterly inspection .
a process attendant received minor irritation to the eyes when hydrated lime inadvertently flushed out of a port when a cap fell off . the employee was attempting to unblock a chute by using a threaded pipe when the cap was accidently hit and came off . prescribed eye drops were given to the employee for the prevention of infection .
ee was getting on a hitachi backhoe when he slipped and fell on his left elbow
employee was putting accutrak in panline and his left forefinger got caught under the accutrak . employee fractured his left forefinger .
employee opened a door to clean out screw and piched his fingers when he swung it out . he got 5 stitches on his finger where it was cut . he is expected to get full recovery .
on 5-31-01 ee reported having pain and numbness inhis wrists . he sought medical attention , and on 6-21-01 he was diagnosed with crs and is scheduled for surgery july 9 , 2001 .
placing 18 '' rock into ditch , attempted to break rock with bucket of 345 trackhoe by hitting rock , this jarring the excavator resulting in strained neck and back . *original edoc # 266042*
on 1/5/11 employee was taken to the company clinic and was placed on restricted duty . the employee attempted to remove the right outside tooth from the bucket of a loader with a 4 lb . hammer when a metal fragment chipped off and entered the r-knee . the employee was diagnosed with a foreign body to the knee .
opening feed gate & h2s gas came out of gate . ee was overcome by gas & passed out .
ee was unhooking the bolts off the vsi and when ee was getting down instead of using a ladder like ee was asked to use twice ee just jumped down a 2 foot drop .
ee stated that he was lifting roof bolts fromt he bucket of the scoop to load onto the right side roof bolt machine when he felt pain to the lower left part of his buttocks . he was diagnosed a s having a lumbar strain .
ee strained his right calf while he was climbing in the rock breaker .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee . he last worked on 7/2/2014 . no % disability at this time .
ee was struck with piece of coal while installing monorail hangers .
walking from dozer to manbus tripped on dirt winrow . first lost work day 4/17/01 .
ee was removing an overhead chain fall ( hoist ) from the rigging , standing on 6 ' step ladder to reach the unit hanging overhead . the chainfall safety latch caught on the rigging causing the ee to pull on the unit . the unit bacame loose causing the ee to lose his balance causing him to fall approx . 4 ' from the 6 ' step ladder landing on his right arm .
she was in restroom but did not see what bit her
ee pulleed on an air hose that had become hung on catwalk structure . when it came loose , he struck his left elbow against angle iron on catwalk handrail . he suffered a bruise to his left elbow and was placed on restricted duty on 7-22-02. he was released for fully duty 7/26/-2 .
a miner sustained a fracture to right ankle when ee tripped and fell . the fall resulted from the six lanyard that was attached to the full body harness getting hooked on ee's left leg as ee was moving into the work area .
driven by high winds , a power line disconnect switch located at pole # 80 on the n side of pit 15 - arced igniting dry grass . when the fire was discovered a 657 scraper , 16g blade and wildland truck contained and extinguished fire in 1 hour 10 minutes .
opening slide gate to drain water from feeder area , ee slipped bumping elbow on front end loaderside arm that attaches the bucket to the loader .
fueling 785 b truck - standing on ladder . ladder slipped and employee twisted right knee .
employee left knee was struck with cmi cone as employee was hooking it to a hoist and it slid off the cart .
prying on a drive shaft with a bar on a d11n . the bar slipped & the ee hit his elbow on the d117 . right elbow
employee was using a rope and well wheel to pull 6 '' x6 '' steel plates to an uper floor . this activity caused a strain to his lower back .
employee was working approx . 20 feet from where fork truck was removing stone when a piece of stone approx . 8 '' in diameter flew from the fork truck and struck employee in the right hip . no first aid was required . bruising occured and a minimal amount of swelling and tenderness .
as the day shift pre-shift examiner entered the mine property conducting ee's examination ( around 4:45am ) , ee noticed the # 314 dozer engulfed in flames . the machine had been parked for about 11/2 hours after the conclusion of evening shift . there was no one else on the property at the time of the discovery of the fire . ee immediately reported the fire on the 1-800 number .
ee was attempting to unplug a coal chute . he stated he was swinging a sledge hammer side ways when he felt a pull in his right shoulder . diagnosis right shoulder strain , placed in a sling for support . restricted duty .
ee was holding a cinder block while another ee was driving it into a stopping , hammer struck ee's left index finger resulting in a fracture .
while using a rivet gun to conduct clean up under # 5 digester unit . the 18 '' rivet gun bit broke , fell forward and struck the ee on the top of his right foot . the force caused the bit to cut through the boot & punctured the ee's foot . ee was taken to onsite medical facility where he was treated & released . ee was placed on restricted duty on 10/10/12 .
ee was walking along & tripped & fell . could find no obstructions to cause the fall .
ee was removing a jack stand from underneath a forklift that he had been working on when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . ee was sent for medical attention , and was placed on restrictions , and refered to an ortho for further evaluation .
ee was using a 3'bar to loosen a silo valve . this valve had been incorrectly tightened and ee strained his lt. shoulder while pulling on bar to loosen the nuts . ee reported injury on 10/4/0 2 but did not request medical attention until 11/14/02 and at that time was put in work hardening program with restrictions .
employee was trying to hammer in a arm pin on his loader he had one foot braced on the finder and one on the frame with his back braced against the hyd tank and slipped and fell .
at approximately at 8:00 am on 2/5/2010 , injury was pulling auger sections out of the extruder along with # 1 ee , # 2 ee and # 3 ee . injury was taking the augers and tossing them on the ground . he had tossed 3 augers and switched places with # 2 ee . he started feeling discomfort after 10 minutes of switching with # 2 ee .
i was stretching and climbin the ladder to get to the cab on my loader , and pulled something in my lower back .
ee taking a piece of pipe up to tank and was talking to another ee . ee turned around and ran into a piece of steel overhead , extending out into walkway .
employee was greasing secondary crusher and dryer ( scd ) l-150 d loader and slipped on snow/ice and landed on right shoulder . employee decided not to go to see a doctor until 2/17/2007 . reportable due to restricted work duty days starting 2/17/2007 .
employee was restacking a pile of pallets . when lifting some pallets the weight twisted in left hand . left thumb slowly became painful and was swollen by the next day . treated with rx meds onl y .
ee was attempting to cut out a triangle piece of a conveyor belt . he cut the first two sides of the triangle and pulled that piece back so the third side would be easier to cut . as he cut towa rds himself with a utility knife , he was unable the blade before it cut his abdomen . he received three stitches on the same day of the accident , march 4 , 2004 .
ee was walking on belt that was down , belt was wet & muddy . he was going to cut belt into with his knife . knife was open . ee slipped & fell on it .
employee stated ee was laying rail on 1 section when ee felt pain in stomach . employee later sought medical attention on 4/15/2017 and was placed on restricted duty . this incident will be reported as restricted duty .
mechanic & drill operator were removing teeth from the bucket of the excavator using an 8 lb . sledge hammer to jar the teeth while the injured employee used a bottle jack to push on the pin piece of the hammer . the head came off & flew into the employee's left hand between his first two fingers .
using air lance to clean between lime conveyor idlers , material shot back at ee & as he turned his head a piece of lime got through his goggles causing irritation to the eye . sent to occ drs c hecked him & applied medication . gave him a prescription for ointment to apply to eye .
ee was pulling 1 1/2 '' rubber hose under the d-40thickene to the 50'u/f washout . ee was pulling the hose at his side when he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . ( rx for phys.therapy daily for one week ) .
main e unit - employee was attempting to install top right rear cover on miner . pushed cover , injured/twisted right knee .
employee slipped on a rock while installing a roof bolt . this resulted in a torn acl and swelling of the knee . he had his knee drained . employee has had no lost time but will require surgery in the future .
ee was loosening bolts on the motor when his ratchet slipped causing him to feel pain in his lower back . he did not cease working unitl1/2/01 at which time he was instructed by a dr to remai n off work . note : this report is late because of an oversight on paperwork
officer performing his patrol ; he misjudged a corner and drove over the berm . the vehicle tipped on side , deploying side airbags . ee climbed out window , walked app . 2 miles back to mine . upon arrival at security he passed out . mine emt's were called and ee noted as being unconscious . all vitals were strong , and ee taken to hospital . ee released w/no medical trtmt or restrictions .
ee was walking up stairs of haul truck , both hands on handrails , lost footing , stumbled and hit right knee on grating . seen by provider , released to restricted duty on next scheduled shift .
during a belt splice an employee was lacing the machine on top of belt while another was advancing the machine and ran out of room about halfwayacross . victim climbed on board , grabbed frame o f splice rig , reached over with his right hand , and placed it on top of frame as lacing was progressing . victim's thumb was in the way and the tip got severed .
experienced problem at 5pm but did not happen again , made guide check found dog brakes . replaced nw dog , nw dog linkage arm ( top ) both nw & sw linkage arms ( bottom ) . replaced nw dog mounting bracket complete shined top west guides 1/8 '' , oiled guides on cage and counter , weights used slope hoist till noon 2/5/05 .
a second fall occurred this date on 10-01-4 out by break # 26 110 in by spad . 5 ' by 20 ' by 30 ' . additional support put in location around area and beam and jack put in belt tract entry .
at approximately 11:10 pm , e28 longwall intersected an uncharted gas well at 82 shield at 116+45 . *accident code for inundation was chosen because there is no option for uncharted gas well .
ee was walking to his roof bolter . as he walked around the corner he struck his left knee against the bolter . the accident was not reported to the operator until 9-9-03 after the ee had alrea dy received medical treatment .
shop foreman slipped on ice outside of shop and fell . left ankle was twisted and strained . scraped right knee . did not require doctor visit date of incident . he requested doctor visit on 2-15-07. doctor diagnosed minor swelling & prescribed tylenol as needed and follow up doctor visit on 2-26-07 .
during repairs on the longwall a mechanic felt a pop in back as ee pushed on a 30 mm end wrench . ee returned to duty . on 3/27/2017 this mechanic sought chiropractic care , identified as medical treatment by the yellow jacket and converting it to a medical treatment case on that day .
employee had a laceration that required stitchesat hospital . ee was using a chisel and 4 lb hammer when the chisel or a piece of the hammer splintered off and went into left leg .
unsure , may be pulling water hoses , driving and everyday activities ; has been ongoing since late june . ee feels numbness , tingling , an arthritic feeling in the left hand .
emp was holding an s hook in right hand to guide 480 volt power cable onto reel . as cable was rolling , it jerked , pulling emp's right hand and arm into the cable reel . emp pulled hand and arm free ; xrays at er were negative for fracture , emp released to full duty . upon follow-up with dr. emp referred to orthopedist and placed on restricted duty beginning 10/13/05 .
ee had just finished loading the roof bolter , when a piece of rock fell from the top and struck him across the thighs of both legs , causing some bruising .
employee attempted to re-attach the bucket onto the skid steer . at this time employee placed himself between the bucket and the skid steer . the bucket was raised approximately 12 inches off the ground . the bucket fell off the boom striking the employee in the back of both heels . this resulted in bruises to his heels and the dr. prescribing vicodin for pain .
ee was trying to dump a load of rock . rock was wet & frozen inside trailer . hydraulic cylinder broke & trailer fell on cab of truck .
ee was tending the cable for the miner & as he pulled on the cable he strained his back .
miner man was setting bits on miner , he had set 3 or 4 bits he set head of miner down on his foot , outside bit cam through top of boot ( beside steel toe ) bit hit toe next to big toe on right f oot causing a cut requiring stitches on toe . no fracture .
ee was putting up a 6 ' torque tension bolt . he was using fast feed . the bolt caught the roof strap causing it to bend and broke the nut off of the bolt , sending the 8 '' x 8 '' plate flying and st riking him on the left side of his face .
injured was looking for the phone line . a rock fell out between roof support , hitting ee on side of head & shoulder , causing bruise on top of left shoulder .
ee was getting on a caterpiller forklift whe he struck the outside of his right knee on the corner of the cab of the forklift .
after helping clear an obstruction in the feeder hopper , employee was struck in the head to the rear of his hard hat by a rock that fell off the conveyor . employee came to the office and asked for asprin and told what happened . he said he was o.k . and returned to work . one and one half hours later he asked to go to the doctor for x-rays , etc .
unintentional roof fall . main east # 1 intake 136 to 137. bolted with 8 ' tension rebar . 15 ' long x 18 '' wide x 8 ' high . propped around . will not be cleaned up .
ee was putting a pump on a haul truck . at a later date he stated he had hurt his back . he stated he had hurt his back on 12/26/02 . he did seek medical attention on 2/24/03 .
ee was attempting to roll v-belt on shaft with a wrench . he lost his footing and he put his hand out to catch himself . his hand then went under the shaft .
employee reported that he had an irritation in his left eye . he attempted to remove the speck that could be seen , then an emt flushed the eye repeatedly . he was taken to an optometrist , and a piece of metal was removed . he was returned to work with no restrictions .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred at the 27+20 ' in # 2 entry of unit 2. the fall measured 40 ' x 18 ' x 6 ' . no one was injured , passage of men not effected , ventilation not effected . fall wa s due to adverse roof conditions .
injured had climbed upon the back of a mechanic truck to connect a air hose to a grease gun . he stooped down and picked up the hose from the bed floor . after he raised up to make the connectio n , he felt a burning sensation in the back of his lower left leg .
an additional ventilation was installed for the # 1 entry of the fifth right development section . one shuttle car was loaded on the left side the continuous miner was moved to the right side . a s it began to cut a methan feeder was ignited . the flare-up was extinguished w/rock dust . this section has encountered a fault & methan is being liberated in this area . flareup was appr 20 se
ee was walking out of lunchroom when he lost his balance and twisted his right knee .
employee had finished loading anfo and was in the process of wrapping up the on/off control valve hose . employee's feet got caught in the hose and he fell to the ground . employee was evaluated and diagnosed with a right upper arm contusion .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on a- mains at survey station 880. the fall extended from # 6 intersection thru 6-7 x-cut into # 7 intersection . approx . 80'l x 18'w x10'h . contained 6 ' resin bolts & 10 ' cable bolts . the area was developed 12/98 . fall dangered off & floor & roof supports added at the approaches . the fall will not be cleanded up .
unintentional roof fall occurrd 40 ' inby spad # 2803 , # 5 entry , 1st right , 2nd north east mains 003 section , 600 ' out by 4-b tail . bolted with 6 ' torque tension bolts , 20 ' wide x 20 ' long x 6 ' high . slicky sided big slip .
employee was painting guards when a piece of metal flew into his eye . employee was wearing safety glasses . the metal was removed , but the employee recieved a prescription .
ee slipped while getting out of scoop deck ( lost his balance ) tried to catch himself with his left hand , ee left hand hit ground first thumb or hand sprained backwards causing pain .
ee was putting breaker in at # 3 belt drive , short circuit on secondary bar .
the employee was removing lay flat hose from rockdusting machine . the hose became tangled or caught on the machine . he `` jerked '' the hose in an attempt to free it . strained abdomen .
employee was using a cutting torch to cut a steel beam , approx . 200 lbs. , 5 '' wide , about 1 foot from the ground . as ee was cutting the beam , it shifted and fell across both feet . ee right 2nd toe was fractured and ee sustained contusions to both feet .
ee was driving a company pick up when it overheated . the ee stopped the vechicle and started to remove the radiator cap . the ee then closed the cap and then reopened it and recieved 2nd degree burns on his arm between his wrist and elbow on his right arm .
ee cut leg using a utility knife .
employee was lifting a grease drum up to drill deck . there were two employees on the drill assiting when the drum was let down on the deck before the employee had moved his hand from beneath the drum . the drum pinched the employee's left hand injuring the index finger .
ee slipped in the slope and heard a pop in his right wrist when he was catching himself . he was diagnosed with a fracture .
welder had been usaing air arc and had laid it down . he then removed his welding shield at whichtime air arc began to leak , blowing metal into left eye .
ee was prying up two hoses with a prybar when his footing shifted , causing the pry bar to strike him on the forehead .
a roof fall occurred in the screening plant in the mine . there were no injuries on any kind , no restriction to travel in normal work areas , no change in ventilation and as we understand definitions in 50.2 no reason to complete a 7000-1. msha did issue a 103j order on 09/29/204 . termination of citation/order # 8854245 was issued on 05/04/2015 .
ee was removing dust collector bags from silo # 1 ( 81010 ) . he was in awkward position and the bags were heavey . he strained his lower back . this injury required one day of restricted work activity on sat 3/12/05 . his regular work shift is wednesday thru sat .
ee suffered a heart attack and passed away while on the job at 3:50 a.m .
the employee was attempting to clean an airslide in the mill dept . when they began feeling nauseous . the employee felt that they had gotten too hot during the 45 minutes that they worked on the airslide . the employee was treated at a local hospital for a heat illness and was placed on a work restriction for two days .
employee states while performing maintenance he sustained cement dust in his left eye causing irriation . ee received prescription from examining physician with follow-up visit to ophthalmologist .
ee was prep to clean the a/c of the control tower with the water trk but while exiting the truck ee stepped on a rock and sprained left knee . the ee sought medical attn on 7/24 and was diag with a sprain and released w/o rest . mri results were obtained which revealed a hairline fracture of the femoral condyle which made this as a med reportable injury as of 8/7/17 .
the ee was helping to dismantle the dredge when doing so he moved a flanged pipe that slid and tipped out of the saddle pinching and severing the end of the ee's right thumb between the pipe frame and corner of the dredge cabin . the ee had surgery on 9-6-02 to pin bone on the end of the thumb .
employee was on a mantrip when the mantrip struck a timber causing a piece of draw rock to fall and his him on his right wrist .
ee was knelt down behind the miner picking up pull ropes that had fell off . the rib rolled out and struck him on the back of the head and his back . the rock measured approximately 80 '' long x 17 '' wide x 11 '' thick . he was transported to raleigh general hospital where x-rays were negative . he was released to return to work . due to continuing pain unable to rtw on 10/8/14 & 10/9/14
ee was descending steps & when he reached the bottom step he twisted his knee causing tendon strain . ee was placed on restrictive duty & provided medication .
emp . was spotting bits on miner . he was using a raw hide brass hammer and bit wrench , as he was coming down to hit the bit wrench , the outside of his hand between the knuckles and wrist came in contact with another bit . sent to er . positive x-ray for fracture , placed on restrictions .
ee was opening a package and cut hand with scissors .
based on the information received from those present it appears that the ignition was caused when the spark from the cutting machine shearer ignited an unknown methane bleeder while cutting ha rd rock middle man and coal at shield location # 56 with headgate drum msha notify timely .
while walking to the booster pump ee tripped on a water line & fell over onto the booster pump striking it with his right elbow & lower arm resulting in pulling the muscles in his right should er .
employee was stripping the starter sheets for copper . the tool he was using was dull and he had to use more force with his arm to strip . arm washurting afterward and got worse that evening . hurt from fingers to shoulder .
ee was cleaning a section of drill auger when his glove was caught and pulled ee's hand , wrist and forearm around the auger . ee shut down the auger and freed ee . ee received a hairline fract ure to wrist and dr restricted work activity for 2 weeks at less than 10 pounds . anticapate full work release 4-21-00 .
the employee went to move the jackleg closer to the rib to avoid running over the jackleg with mobile equipment . as ee positioned the leg up against the rib left wrist struck a sharp rock cutting left wrist . the sharp rock was about 1.5 feet above the sill .
conditions consisted of water being sprayed onto steps by water truck , creating slight amount of mud on step . employee was walking into break room to get ice for his personal cooler . as ee walked up the steps , his left foot slipped in some mud .
injured complained of pain in the lower back while at work . there was no real incident . he didn't slip , trip , fall , strike or be struck by anything . after bedical evaluation he was taken off w ork for back strain . this is an occupational injury .
employee was driving a euclid ch-150 coalhauler in pit 11 f section when he hit a hole in the road jarring his back , road maintenance was ongoing at the time of the incident . on 8/11/08 employee was diagnosed with a herniated disk at l5-s1 in his lower back . employee is unable to work till further notice .
ee claims continued use of switches on remote control box cause pain in both hands ( carpal tunnel ) . medical report shows ee off work 5/10/00 for surgery .
employee was on a ladder checking hook on chain hoist . a ramcar came by and caught leg of the ladder knocking ee onto the tire of the ramcar .
as the ee was helping to install a pin to hold the grapple onto the equipment another ee was using a sledge hammer to pound the pin into place . the hammer glanced off of the pin striking ee in the face causing a contusion on the r side of face .
employee was changing bits on cutter drum of wirtgen 2200sm . he was wearing safety glasses but when he tapped a retainer clip to remove it , a small piece of metal ( apparently ) flew over his glasses causing a cornial abrasion . there was no metal found in his eye .
ee was building a permanent stopping . the mine floor was uneven & as he was positioning a 6 inch block , another fell from the stopping & struck him on the left hand & wrist . ee continued to wo rk until december 30th , when he contacted his supervisor to inform him that he would be off work until 1/2/2003 .
a rock fall was found during the pre-shift examination on the date and time stated in # 6 and 7. the fall was 60 ft long x 19 ft wide and 4 to 6 ft thick . the location of the fall was in the no . 6 entry on the no . 5 main at break # 12 .
the employee was closing the discharge valve using a 36 '' pipe wrench . as he was pulling down he experienced pain in his lower back . was evaluated at nnrh er and given full duty release . employee was still experiencing pain , went to the doctor on october 7 and was given a restricted duty release beginning october 11 next scheduled workday - deeming this reportable per part 50 .
ee was operating a underground forklift . he attempted to put the forks under a bundle of bolts . it caused the forklift to raise striking his head against the roof . he continued to work until 9 -14-02. he was advised by dr to remoain off until 9-14-02 .
the resistor for the elevator brakes was open . had to order parts . no one was on the elevator at this time , corrective action , resistor was ordered as well as spares . elevator was opertional around 9:00 am on 12/3/08 .
became reportable on 11-14-00 when ee began missing work as a result of this incident . ee slipped & fell off of a conveyor belt structure , a distance of 4 ' causing pain to his rt . knee which w as later diagnosed as a torn cartilage . ( # 4 belt tail area ) .
injured employee was removing the lock ring on 4 1/4 crusher with a hydraulic ram another employee was cleaning off the dist . plate with a water hose . when the water splashed distracting the injured employee , the employee caught his left index finger between the wedge of the ram and tube of the ram .
while placing door on cooler discharge elevator caught little finger on right hand betwen door and opening .
on 11/2 the ee was assigned to clean out the scalping tower due to a backed up screen . he felt tightening in his back while shoveling and after lunch the pain became more severe . he reported it to his supervisor and attempted to work through the soreness for remainder of the week . he was taken to the clinic on 11/9 and was diagnosed with a back sprain and placed on restrictions .
timber skip hung up in raise , miner wiggled to move the skip down , there was 6 feet of slack cable above . timber skip released coming down on ee `` r '' big toe fracturing the big toe .
cold icy conditions 9 degrees f .
miner was tramming scoop along # 5 entry ( travelway ) of black mains approx . 1800 feet outby the section . a brow of rock popped free of the rib and struck a 5 '' x7 '' post that was 8 feet in length , causing it to fall into the kitchen of the scoop , striking the miner on the left side of his head .
ee was assisting a continuous miner operator when a section of roof fell . the coal section broke into smaller pieces whe it came in contact with the shuttle car he was standing near . this caused a piece of coal approx . 3'x 3'x 6 ' to strike the injured ee from the side near his knee pushing his leg in a horizontal motion .
ee checking brake fluid levels , finger slipped , hit edge of casing r thumb laceration
a roof fall was discovered in the intersection of spad # 6718 on the old 10 belt panel . the fall was approximately 7 to 8 ' in height and the entire intersection . timbers were set and danger signs posted all approaches . no ventilation controls were affected . no employees or equipment were involved . a map of the area was sent to the local msha office .
on the 088-0 mmu 6 north mains section , an alleged ignition occurred - an orange flame , round in shape , 18 '' to 24 '' in size , lasting 2 to 3 seconds . self-extinguishing was observed . no injuries to persons or property .
ee was changing return rollers on the field belts . he strained the muscles in his back resulting in a back injury .
while walking in mud on the section he twisted his right knee . the injury was diagnosed as an acl tear on 12/18/02 .
helping ee take down tubing . coal rib rolled off and struck him on knee .
a miner was removing excess material from a conveyor belt and suffered a heat illness ( heat exhaustion ) . other miners were present and were unsure of the affected miners sickness , so ems was called as a precaution . the affected miner was hospitalized for apprx 3 hours and was administered fluids and iv .
the injured ee was re-arranging miner cable on the mine floor when he fell backwards onto his back . the ee continued to work ; a few minutes later he stated he felt back pain . he was treated on the section and transported to the surface where an ambulance transported him to the local hospital .
employee was coupling railcars to locomotive . when he noticed at the last minute that the draw heads were not lining up , used his left foot to push the draw head on the railcar . his foot slipped and was caught in the couplings , crushing his toes . three toes were surgically moved later that night . ( little toe and next 2 amputated - all proximal phalange . )
ee was trying to insert a 2ml glass pipette into a dispenser when the pipette broke . the broken end of the pipette cut his palm & three of his fingers . he was taken to local hospital & received five stitches on his pinky finger .
ee slipped as he was getting in loader .
while looking over in old tool box with lid propped open , the lid fell shut and struck ee on back of neck .
while barring out a plugged sock , ee put the bar down and dropped it through the mesh on the walkway to a lower deck . he went down stairs to retrieve it and stepped in a pile of spillage on th e lower deck and twisted his knee .
ee was walking from the shifter's office toward the lab ( to start her shift ) as she came out of the shifter's ofc . & began to walk toward the lab , she walked onto an icy patch & lost her balan ce . she fell back hitting her r. shoulder & the back of her head . ee was taken to hospital ; for xrays . xrays were neg . ee was given an antiinflammatory and returned to work .
ee was walking up conveyor belt to clear any large boulders that might be stuck on shaker chute when he tripped and lost his balance from his own two feet . he hit the shaker on his left side of his chest . he got up and told his supervisor .
repretitive motion over long period of time . ee went to dr on 4-4-05. reported this to me on 5-2-05 .
ee informed his foreman that he didn't feel well & had felt a pain in his right arm . foreman told ee he was going to drive him to calif. occupational services in modesto to have the situation checked out . ee said he preferred to go home & consult his personal dr. ee's dr met him @ sonora hospital , ran some tests which indicated ee had major heart problem & had experienced mild hear
ee and co worker were replacing the roller on a dozer . the weld they had made to hold the boggey in place broke . this allowed the boggey to slip and catch his finger . nbo broken bones but he h ad a deep laceration on his left index finger . several stitches were required to close the wound . he returned to work the next scheduled shift which was 8/26/01 .
had an unintentional roof fall on the 2nd pillar panel on west submains 40'x20'4 ' .
employee and coworker were carring a 102 lb . electric motor up stairs . employee strained lower back .
ee stated he was walking back to his truck after a break , stepped on a rock and twisted his ankle . seen at the er , diagnosed with a strain and released . ee requested more care . investigation confirmed on 08/27/2012 that this was a work related injury . reportable for lost time .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 1l mining section at 38 x-cut . the fall measured approx . 32 ft long by 10ft high by 26ft wide . the fall occurred in the return intersection . there were no injuries or equipment damage as a result of this event
at 9:45am ee reported he saw another ee fall to ground as if passed out . ee found other ee lying on ground by bulk sack machine complaining of shortness of breath . 911 call made , when ent arrived they check blood pressure & sugar level . sugar level low so they administered sugar through iv seem to become alert immediately . transported to hospital .
the alleged incident happened on 3/19/2010 ee stated on 3-23-2010 that he had twisted his ankle at work the employee did not tell the company or report it to anyone for a few days . there were no witnesses and he told no one he was ever hurt for four days .
ee lying on side using die grinder . debris entered corner of eye .
ee & his partner were moving the roofbolter his partner rotated the mast for clearance & his fingers were pinch by a steel that became bound up.the inj ee was helping free his partners ' finger s when the steel flipped up striking him in his chest .
ee stated that while getting tools out of tool sled on the morris fork section a piece of daw rock fell out between roof bolts striking him on the head .
rock fall 4.5 ' to 5 ' thick , 20 ' wide , 50 ' long . # 7 entry 1 break inby spad 5460. will not be cleaned up . # 8 entry will be used as return .
ee was placing screen cloth in scalper screen . screen fell on right hand .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 8/7/01 in the # 2 entry ( neutral ) at break 123. fall was approximately 6'high x 18'wide x 20'long ( intersection ) . no injuries , no equipment caught , ventilation was not interrupted . the area had been bolted with 6 ' rebar tension bolts .
working in and around coal mines for 32 yrs . hewas first diagnosed with compressed discs in hisspine 5/3/00 . this was brought to my attention on 5/12/00 .
miner/employee was assisting in replacing new sand screw wear shoes when ee was repositioning the shoe to the shaft it slipped from his grasp and resulting in a caught between the sand screw tank wall and screw auger flight crushing/minor fracture injury to his left index finger .
ee & another ee were dismounting a frame the frame was on a bench 3 ft tall . part of the framem brokeloose & fell off the bench onto ee's right foot . he did not see if comming at the time so h e did not move out of the way of falling part
4 south end of truck , he had taped a chain to roof bolt to push chain between pallets , then using a utility knife to cut tape off chain , as he pulled back on knife it came back and cut left th umb . he was wearing gloves , sutures to close wound .
a roof fall measuring 19 ' wide x 16 ' high x 30 ' long . occurred on the jenny branch section near spad no . 5094 .
the employee had just completed changing out a welding oxygen cylinder . the employee was placing the empty cylinder in the back of a jeep . he bent down placed his left hand on the bottom of the cylinder ; when he lifted he heard a pop and had instant pain in his left bicep . he was taken to the er on the 27th , a specialist on the 28th and is scheduled for surgrey on the 29th .
a fal of roof occvurred in the 1st ne submains in the # 7 entry in between # 6 & # 7 xcut . the fall was approx 12 , 400 ' outby the unit and was approx 30 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' . the area was supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
driver was tarping a load & the devise jerked his arm back
employee was loading cribs into a ramcar when he caught his finger between the crib tie and the bed of the car . medical treatment injury .
ee felt a `` pop '' in left shoulder while using a rubber mallet to strike a bag house ; resulting in left shoulder strain .
the employee was using a utility knife to cut a rubber conveyor belt , while doing so the knife case broke and the blade got out of its case cutting the external side of the right hand ( 1 '' cut ) . ee got stitches at the hospital and returned to modified duty the same day .
employee was turning off/on an electrical box when the box arced internally causing the latched door to swing open . the door hinges at the top of the box ; when it swung open it hit ee in the bridge of his nose . he was not electrocuted but there was an electrical flash . ee was bleeding from a cut on his nose and was taken to hospital for examination .
ee was changing cutting edges when one fell on his foot . he was seen at the er and diagnosed with a fractured big toe . released to restricted duty that the site was unable to accommodate . lost time .
while tramming shuttlecar , injured hit a hole in the bottom causing him to bounce out of the seat and strike his head on bottom of canopy , hurting neck .
ee was trying to move a staircase from a wabco truck , that was on the ground on 1-6-04. he felt a sharp pain in the lower back .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st main west , # 5 entry , 41 crosscut intersection . the fall measures approximately 18 ' long , 18 ' wide , & 10 ' high . the area was supported with 4 ' fully grouted resi n bolts & 12 ' cable bolts .
ee was tightening tail jack he let go of jack handle latch on jack was not latched and handle came back and struck man on head .
ee was roofbolting . a rock fell and he jumped out of the way . when he jumped out of the way he received a laceration from the roof bolt pan that was in his hand .
ee tripped on safety lanyard , caught himself on a loading stand , straining his shoulder . did not become reportable until 6/5/03 .
lifting a 300 lb metal box to be installed in chute with back hoe bucket & chain . box was not hanging straight after picking it up 3 ft. , attempted to straighten box when the back end came loo se , box slid down leg & struck top of right foot , breaking 1 bone & chipping another .
the ee was struck on top of right foot by a rock that fell from between 2 shields .
ee began missing work on 6-20-01 complaining ofnumbness in his rt . leg . he reported that dr. stated he has spurs inhis back which area an occupational illness . final determination can not be ma de because of lack of medical information . corrected copy will be completed as soon as possible .
february mri revealed herniated disk . ee claims damage due to working at allentown cement over extended period of time .
2 '' airline blew apart , plus 2 '' waterline , both under pressure .
the employee was pounding out a latchbar insert for a shovel bucket using a sledge hammer . a small piece of steel splintered off the insert and penetrated the inside of the right thigh . an incision was needed to remove the metal fragment and four stitches were required to close the affected area .
employee was removing brick from the kiln when abrick rolled over and pinched his right middle finger while at the same time he felt something pull in his left elbow .
ee was cutting the right side of # 4l , cut about 5 ' break went though he was backing up to set over , went rock fell and struck him in the head & shoulder .
while performing normal duties as a mechanic , the ee's right knee began to give problems . the repetitive motion of bending , kneeling and working on his knees has caused , over time , degenerativ e joint syndrome weakening his right knee .
ee was carrying a rock , fell on his knee and twisted it .
ee was assembling radiator , turned to walk away , radiator assembly fell , striking ee on right lower shin about 4 '' above ankle .
while ascending the mill stairway , employee's left heel did not clear the edge of the last step , causing him to twist his left knee . employee didnot report or seek treatment until 9/21/00 .
a 4 wheel atv was trespassing and ran off a bench where we were stripping . the atv had a driver & a passenger ( male & female ) .
ee had just begun the 2nd day of restricted duty from acc . in 2005. ee was operating the sand catching plant . the job involves opening and closing a valve periodically by using a lever which is manipulated on a horizontal plane to control flow of sand and water . ee heard something pop in his back when he moved the lever right to left . pain in back and left leg .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the mains section inby spad # 1742 in # 3 entry . fall measured approx . 300 ' x 20 ' x 8'-10 ' . passage of persons & ventilation not affected . fall area will be re bolted . continuous miner & power center involved
the ee was hanging miner cable to the coal rib and felt a pain in his right groin area . the examination showed a muscle pull . two days restricted duty .
after inspecting wash plant spray bars , ee lost his footing and caught himself with his left hand . this caused shoulder and upper arm strain .
a roof fall occured in the south sub mains , # 11 entry , 3740 ' station . the fall was approximately 12 ' long , 10 ' wide amd 8 ' tall . the area was bolted with 6 ' & 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
ee was walking around a cable drag in the pit . he tripped on uneven ground , landing on his hands and knees , over power cable .
employee was injured while removing large salt chung from belt conveyor system . when swinging a pick to break the chunk , the employee struck part of metal conveyor structure with hand .
injured employee was using a razor knife to cut tape off of a broken troley pole when he lacerated his right index finger . the wound required 4 sutures to close .
ee stated he felt pain in lower back while pulling on rockdust hose . ee has prior back problem ; surgery in 2001 , missed 179 days . ee started missing work on 2-11-03 .
injured was diagnosed with arthritis , a condition that causes severe pain in his left shoulder . he first reported this condition on september 26 , 2003 but continued to work until he received m edical treatment and began losing time on 11-5-2003 .
after picking up a bucket of clips approx . 15 lbs ee extendid his left arm outward to another ee to pass it to him . his arm failed lost all strength in his arm in an extended position .
ee was working on a conveyor in the quarry . he was pulling himself up the conveyor when he felt a pull in lower back . company was notified on july 8 that he received medical treatment- chiropractor care .
he was removing a hose band on a 3 '' rubber hose . the hose had factory installed fasteners that have to be removed by sawing off . he was sawing through the hoseband with a hacksaw . when he cut through , the fastener popped back and cut his left index finger .
ee was pulling pump cable slack up and got shocked from opening in the cable .
ee was trying to loosen & change a loader tooth with a sledge hammer when a piece of metal came loose & struck his abdomen .
ee was cleaning gob in an intersection with a powell scoop when a 4 ft metal strap flipped up cutting him above his right eye causing a small laceration . he received 10 stitches .
the # 1 conveyor belt chute at the ceredo dock plugged off with coal . employee was using a sledge hammer to hit the side of the chute on the upriver side of the middle level of the transfer structure to knock loose the frozen coal when a piece of metal about 1/4x10x34 inches in size hit his left hip and back area , causing a bruise/contusion .
technician tripped on a floor mat when entering the leco room and fell on her knees and left hand , injuring her left wrist .
ee states he was unloading metal shelves for an office and he cut the palm of his left hand . required sutures . not wearing gloves .
employee was on his knees beside a motor that was being installed and alligned . he was removing the motor base bolts , which were loose , with his fingers while leaning over the motor . he felt a muscle in his lower back `` pull/strain '' as he continued loosening bolts . he did not seek medical advice at the time and believed it would resolve overnight . next day he went to dr .
ee sufferred a noise induced hearing loss .
employee was changing oxygen sensor on company truck . when ee cut the clip off ee cut ee's right hand thumb with ee's knife requiring 3 stitches .
member was working to unstop a drain pipe that ran from second floor of plant to the basement . he entered a restricted area and was walking across a metal sub floor to reach the pipe . a section of floor broke and he fell 15 ' 9 '' , striking a catflock tank and sliding down it to the basement floor .
unintentional roof fall discovered during examination . fall measurfed approximately 50'lx25'wx10'h . fall was located at no . 1 section , 11 entry , 17 block , station 4931. area previously supported with 10 ' cable bolts and 6 ' full grout resin bolts . area developed on or about 8-18-06 .
ee was working as a prop setter on the longwall during his routine duties , he made a turn with his body to walk in another direction when he felt pain inlower back . records indicate that he has a prior back injury
ee was using jackhammer to clear preheat tower on line # 1 when he felt a strain in his lower back .
ee was changing a drill bit on a pneumatic drillwhen it `` popped '' up and hit him in the mouth .
when crimping 4/0 wire , technician felt pain in his right elbow . the next morning , his elbow wasswollen so he was seen by a dr. who diagnosed him with olecranon bursitis and prescribed an anti -inflammatory .
miner using jackleg to put roof bolts in the back , rock came out of back slid down jackleg hitting `` l '' little finger and left forearm .
employee was operating an articulating truck down the access road when ee veered off the road and came to a stop on a hillside . ee does not remember anything leading up to this event .
ee was cutting a piece of plate that was near the remaining bulk of the plate he was stepping backwards and his foot stepped into a gap on the plate , causing him to fall to his side with his foot lodged in the hole he had stepped in .
unintentional roof fall above anchorage left return # 4 belt , # 10 break inby spad # 1336. this is an extension of an old reported fall
ee was attempting to remove a keeper pin on the side of the bucket with a chipping hammer when a sliver of metal came off and lodged in the upper part of his right hand .
employee was climbing a ladder , when he claims he mistepped and lost footing and fell , injuring his left foot .
emp . slipped while walking around back of truck twisting his ankle . employee became a lost time as of 8/17/04 .
an unintentional roof fall was found at 10:23 am on the old 1st right panel at spad # 651 in the # 7 entry . the fall was approx 35'l x 18 ' w x 8'h .
ee was cutting belt line with a utility knife when the knife slipped and he cut his left leg above his knee . he received 7 staples . came back to work on 9/1/09 no lost time .
opened double doors to get lo-trac out . closed one door and other door closed on its own , ( while he was holding it ) , from the pressure . strained l.shoulder . surgery .
employee was attempting to remove 7 roof screens from a bundle of screens that were leaning against the rib when the entire bundle tipped over striking ee in the left leg .
employee was working as amaterial unloader . while closing door on rail ca rwith bar , the bar popped out jarring his shoulder . some rail cars are in very poor conditioin .
ee was installing roof bolts , when he caught his finger between drill steel and mine roof .
ee was pushing pipe off backof trailer when a piece hit the end of the trailer stopping the pipe and jamming it into his hand .
ee was in process of swinging boom of bolter when the foot jack slipped off of a piece of rock causing the canopy to come down hitting ee on the top of his head
ee was a passenger riding from underground to the outside when the mantrip he was riding on failed to stop in time and ran through an airlock doors causing blockage above the door to dislodge & fall and strike him on his left leg & foot . transported himself to summerville hospital where x-rays were negative , placed on restricted duty for 1 week .
ee was pulling a scaling gun off of the scaffolding which it was located.upon puling it off , it came down suddenly , he lost his grip and it struck his left earlobe . laceration to left ear by s caling gun clip . ee instructed on proper removal of tools from scaffolds .
on 3/9/2017 , an employee was getting out of car before shift and rolled ankle . ee attended a follow-up appointment on 3/10/2017 was given medications that prevented from returning to work on 3/11/2017 .
the employee was in the process of installing utilities from a scissors deck . he picked up a 4 inch diameter pipe and slipped on the wet surfaceof the deck , fell down on the deck , rotating hi s knee inward . he was transported to e.r . and diagnosed as an acute ligamentous tear in the left knee .
wind blew metal gate into right leg scraping shinbone on 2-24-02. leg became infected by blue jeans rubbing on leg ( allergic to dye in jeans ) . went to hospital on 3-10-02 for treatment of infe ction of right leg .
ee was changing a barrel of oil in the mill building , ee lost his grip on the barrel while trying to lift it . ee's fingers were caught between two barrels , about 1/8 '' to 1/4 '' space inbetween barrels . ee appears to have lost the top tips of his left index and middle fingers .
ee driving a haul wagon and saw a cow run out on the road . ee locked up the brakes and skidded off the road to avoid the cow . ee hit left ribs on seat rest .
ht was coming down the ramp from the dump hit a patch of ice and slid into ee's truck on the right hand side . ee's truck was stopped at the time of impact moving the truck a couple of feet . operator reports back and neck strain .
using drill press in shop to drill holes in a piece of plate . when the bit twisted the plate , injured grabbed the c-clamp causing his hand to be binded sustaining a laceration to his thumb . re portable because of sutures .
ee was on the right side front fender going to cat walk by the cab step and hit his head on the miner bracket .
employee installing air slide in place when his hand got pulled between the flanges . ee rec 'd 3 stitches on middle finger .
ee was changing rollers on slope belt . roller slipped out of his hand and pnched finger between roller and slope floor . compliance with regs not a factor . in attention to activity a factor .
ee was cleaning rooms when he was summoned by another ee at the north face . he drove over & after arriving stopped the loader & shut off the engine & lights . he got out of the loader & walked approx . 75 ' to talk to other ee , discussion & getting paper towels out of the drill he walked back to the in the dark & when doing so he struck the loader bucket with his face .
10/27/05 at about 6:00 pm occured near the # 12 head in entry # 4 ( track entry ) . the fall was 18'w x 25'l . x 8'h . the entrance to the fall was breakered off , clean up and rehabilitation has begun .
he was in basement of the coloring dept . doing asystem clean up . debris had built up in the basement and had become wet . he was walking through debris and got stuck . he forcefully pulled his right leg up against the suction and felt a pullsustained strain of muscles about right knee andthigh .
at 6:31 am an explosion occurred behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . msha , state and company have initiated investigation but results not yet available .
employee was using a sledgehammer to hit the damper to unchock material . the sledgehammer got hung up on the rails as they swung it back causing his elbow to bend backwards . employee reported accident on 01/18/12 . employee requested medical treatment on 02/16/12 and given restrictions .
employee was cleaning off top of rail car when he slipped and fell onto his right side . the car was slippery due to rainy weather conditions . on 6/3/09 emp went to company doctor for continuing knee pain . placed on restrictions and referred to othropedic doctor .
employee was walking down steps on west side of cooler , he tripped on step and felt pain in his right knee , diagnosed with knee strain . employee was able to fully perform job functions and returned to full duty . pain continued in knee , sent for mri . employee was sent for surgery december 30 , 2010 , arthritis aggravated by trip on the step .
canopy roof collapse , employee made 15 minutes call to msha , an ee from the operator was checked for injury/illness . ee released with no symptom immediately . contractors had two of their employees injured .
employee was in the process of plugging the continuous miner cathead into the designated receptacle at the section power center when ee felt a strain in the lower right portion of their back . employee continued to work until 5/17/16 when ee was diagnosed with a herniated disc on 5/18/16 .
the ee claims that as he was assisting with cable handling , the suspended cable fell striking him across the neck and back . he fell to the ground and complained of pain in his back and left knee . the cause of the accident was , the employee failed to pay attention to the hung cable and should have asked for assistance prior to attempting to lower the cable .
a roof fall measuring 18 ' w x 40 ' l x 8 ' h occurred one break inby spad no . 3057 no . 1 ne mains . area was bolted with 6 ' bolts .
ee was setting old screen cloth over handrail when a corner flipped up , caught on his pants , then struck his chin .
# 3 boiler explosion altho explosion occured 5/27/01 initial complaints & diagnosis occurred 6/5/01
ee was assisting another to open a door on a fan housing . he didn't support the weight of the door . as he released the bracket holding the door in place , the door swung downward and struck him in the chest . doctor diagnosed a bruised chest and prescribed medication . ee had not missed work nor was on light duty .
ee was helping install a 54 : return idler on a field conveyor . the ee had one end put in and was attempting to put the other end in when the chain they were using to help lift the idler in pla ce slipped cause the idler to fall striking the ee in the forehead . the ee received a cut on his forehead , ee was taken to the dr. ee received four stitches to close the cut . ee was released
injured was loading tool boxes in mantrip when tool box slid pinching tight index finger between tool box and man trip causing laceration .
claimant states he was hoisting electric skip loader from out of # 2 slurry tank . he pushed loader to get on hook from ladder & caught rightfinger between loader & wall
ee does not know how injury occurred . shoulder simply started to tighten up over the course of the shift .
a roof fall occurred 1 break inby spad # 257 in the number 2 entry adjacent to the number 2 belt approximately 20 ' wide x 40 ' long x 10 ' high
a roof fall was discovered in the # 8 entry of 3 right off # 4 n.e . ( 1 break inby spad # 3578 ) the fall measured approx . 20 ' w x 30 ' l. x 8 ' h. there was no eq . or injuries involved and the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee stated his 4 wheeler bounced him into top striking his head against the roof . emp refused 1st aid and ambulance . emp had family drive him home but then decided en-route to go to er . emp walked unassisted with no visible injuries into the er . he was assessed and received full release . emp returned to doctor on 5/22/15 and was granted time off until 5/30/15 .
operator was climbing down from caterpillar 930 end loader and slipped off the strp in the pouring rain . he landed on fender hitting his ribs . he worked the 4 days , 7-12-04 to 7-15-04 before he went to the doctor .
ee was unplugging a chute using a long post hole digging bar . while working with the bar the ee pinched his right hand between the bar and the chute wall .
an investigation revealed that the ee was leaning over a long-airdox 488 scoop getting a bag of rock dust when a piece of roof rock fell from between the roof bolts striking him on the head & back . the piece of rock took ee to the mine floor . rock was approx. , 110 inches long by 22 '' wideby 8 '' thick . the area where the ee was working was 109 inches in height . rock was slick sided for
employee was removing sheathing from a piece of 1 '' cable with a utility knife and cut the middle finger of his left hand requiring 5 sutures . he came back to work the same shift with a full dr s. release .
ee was bolting top in # 7 entry . he had put up his outside bolt , swung head in drilled inside hole . turned to get half header . rock fell between outside bolt & rib striking lt foot & ankle , bre aking ankle & 5 toes .
ee was loading the eimco dump cylinder cover into the bed of the maintenance truck when it rolled over , pinching his fingers between it & the bed of the truck .
a roof fall as occurred at spad # 350 ( 9 ) breaks outby # 3 head drive in the # 4 and # 5 entry crosscut . the fall measured 20 feet wide , 80 feet long , and 8 feet to ( 0 ) inches thick . this area will be rehabilitated .
ee alleges he was lifting boring equipment over his head injuring his back . ee did not report to his supervisor until june 19 , 05. the insurance company denied the claim due to the length between being hurt and reporting .
ee was repairing the inside door lock latch on a dodge pickup . the 5 '' screwdriver he was using to pry the latch into place slipped and ee's hand came into contact with a sharp piece of metal o n the door .
was walking around a piece of equipment and foot slipped . he fell & hit knee & shin on edge of concrete pad . initial treatment by dr. was first aid , ace wrap & no prescription meds . accident became reportable on 9-20-07 when employee returned to doctor & he determined hematoma needed to be removed .
ee was removing engine doors from a cat 16m grader . handed door down to another employee and felt pain in back .
drive line on mantrip broke hitting the protective guard breaking the weld loose on the guarding metal . the metal guard struck ee in the left foot . injury was a deep bruise on the left foot .
ee was replacing the high pressure fitting on the ac compressor on a cat 16h grader . on his way down the ladder he misjudged his last foot placement falling backwards hitting the back of his head on the concrete floor . this resulted in a laceration on the back of his head . he was treated and released from the palmetto general hospital .
the employee was assisting with splicing a conveyor belt . he was pulling on a come-along , tightening & stretching the belt when the come-along cable broke , causing him to lose his balance & fa ll off the ladder , from about 6 feet . he had some minor contusions & abrasions & strained his left wrist . returned to work on 4/10/01 with no restrict . returned to dr on 5/10 & now has restri
struck by loose rib , which had fallen . ee moved out of the way and fell from deck . he was then struck by a falling bar which hit his knee .
trying to line up screw that opens the door on surge tank so it could be welded . another ee energized system to extend screw so it could be welded . screw extended & bolt on coupling caught bottom of pants pulling left foot up . bolt went down into boot beside ankle & pulled foot up .
ee slipped on expanded metal walking surface because of outside weather conditions being foggy and cold , made walking surface extremely slippery . fell backwards on back and neck . lost time reportability .
ee was assigned to watch a ballantine during a cable pull to assure that the rope remained on the unit . ee stepped into the cable tray . as he did so the ballantine's chain restrained snapped c ausing the rope to pin his leg to the nearby cable tray .
ee was driving a 1978 wabco water truck and was unable to stop when the engine quit . the unit traveled 300 feet and stopped on a berm . the water shifted and the truck rolled 3/4 . ee received 4 broken and 3 cracked ribs . ( ee was not thrown from vehicle . )
employee complained of a pinched muscle in his back . after going to the doctor he reported to me that a nerve was being pinched by a disk in his spine . i am nor sure if this happened at work o r not .
at 9:50 am on 10/27/10 , an unintentional roof fall was discovered during a pre-shift examination while an msha inspection was on-going . the fall occurred at spad # 165 on the belt . it measured approximately 25 ' l x 20 ' w x 6 ' h .
ee traveled to get backsight in order to advance survey station in the # 5 entry of the 2nd butt right off of south mains section . the backsight was outby a run-thru check curtain . he was struck by a loaded shuttle car as it traveled from the # 6 face to the feeder through the run-thru check , and incurred fatal injuries . he was found by the shuttle car operator on his return trip .
ee was loosening bolt on jumbo , sprained right shoulder .
a roof fall in old works in no 7 entry 70 ft inby spad no 1130 approx 10 ft wide , 10 ft long , about 5 ft high . the fall will not be cleaned up .
driving haul truck . drove through a soft spot in the road , causing the seat of the haul truck to bottom out - strained ee's back . ee was examined by physician and released to full duties . reportable as of 8/5/05 when ee sought medical attention from a chiropractor . released full duty .
ee states he was standing wire against the rib . the wire fell , striking him on the left cheek ( face ) .
ee was leaving work at the end of his shift . while walking to his car he stumbled , lost his balance , and fell while crossing the parking ditch . `` ee '' fell forward on his hands and knees and landed face down in the gravel . he felt a sharp pain in his knee when it hit the ground . hours later his right knee became swollen and he was unable to walk on it .
iw struck uneven ground while operating loader , iw was bounced in his seat causing back strain ( iw was wearing seatbelt ) .
ee climbed up the step on the bumper of the pit truck to check the engine oil prior to starting his shift . his foot slipped , due to muddy shoes and he fell to the ground . due to the impact of the fall , he broke 2 ribs and cracked 2 others .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the longwall in the # 1 entry at spad # 66+00 on the tailgate measuring 18 feet long x 16 feet wide x 10 feet high .
employee removed a top belt roller to make a splice in the conveyor belt . when ee turned to drop the roller ee felt a pain in right upper arm . ee received medical treatment on 3/29/2018 and returned to work on next scheduled shift on 4/3/2018 and begin physical therapy on 4/5/2018 .
ee assembled scaffold ladder to lean against i-beam and climbed down . the ladder started to bend - ee grabbed onto i-beam just as ladder collapsed . ee hung from i-beam then fell from approx . 15 feet to lower level . ee landed striking left hand against ladder resulting in dislocated joints .
while working in an area used for welding preparation ee felt an insect sting and continued to work thinking nothing more of it . ee finished his shift and the next . he reported this to his sup ervisor . his supervisor immediately sent him to the doctor . the resulting sting site has gotten badly infected and now requires further medical attention .
on 9/11/11 , employee was rolling a 2 yd mucker tire in shop , when tire hit divot in ground & it made the tire spin & fall into his left knee . he went to medic for evaluation . all was ok. no days were missed . in november , employee went to doctor cause knee was still sore , surgery was set for 11/18/11 , 1st shift missed was on 11/22/11 .
employee was exiting the manbus when he twisted his right knee . note : employee stated that he had knee surgery on his right knee 4 years ago .
north mains 91 block # 11 heading 3 way intersection mmu 004 6 ft high by 10 ft long by 10 ft wide type of support 6 ft tension resin bolts , 6 '' by 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off . additional roof supports set around fall .
ee was getting in the van when he pulled his leg muscle .
ee told driver they were finished unloading but to wait before he pulled off so that he could put the load locks back on the trailer . ee walked ont trailer , put load lock on , turned to walk ou t and driver pulled away causing him to fall right knee twisted with possible ligament damage .
ee was operating a mantrip , traveling to 5 headgate . motorman and a flat carwere coming out of 5 headgate . neither were aware of each other on the track , resulting in a collision . ee sustained a broken ankle .
a roof fall was found in the intersection of # 3 entry , main southwest , measuring 40 ' long , 20 ' wide , and approx . 6 ' high . this area is part of the return , mined in 5/31/91 . there were no injur ies , blockage of personnel . ventilation was not affected . location - > 50 + 90 , x-cut 73 , main southwest
the ee was pulling miner cable when he felt a pinch in lower back . also was operating shuttle car and hit a big hole , this is when back started to hurt worse .
employee was getting loaded when a section of the highwall fell striking the bed and causing the cab to be lifted into the air . ee did not go to the dr. that night . the ee came to work on 10/13/04 at 6 pm . after driving the truck for awhile , ee complained of back pain & soreness .
the ee was driving a small front end loader scraping material off of the floor . the bucket of the loader caught on a piece of re-bar rod sticking up from the ground which caused the loader to stop abruptly . the ee was jarred by the sudden stop .
a roof fall was found at x-cut 62 , # 4 entry , in 4th east . this is an outby area of the mine and is not an escapeway or travelway . the roof fall is not impeding ventilation . it has been dangered off and additional support set on both sides of the fall . the fall is approx . 15 ' wide x 40 ' long and 6 ' high . the area was supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was on an atv pulling 3-inch pipe in rough terrain . employee was also pulling 3-inch pipe by hand and began to experience elbow pain .
ee was tightening tension on conveyor belt using a ratchet wrench and his back went into a spasm , ee experienced extreme pain precluding any further work . ee has been receiving treatment from a specialist for this condition for several months , original onset was not related to any specific work related incident .
the injured was working in the clean coal tunnelat the # 4 prep . plant . he bent over to pick up a4 ' piece of steel channel ( weight 45-50lbs . ) w/ his co-worker when he felt pain in the center of his lower back .
ee tried to lift fiberglass engine shroud to access engine air cleaner-cat . 966g loader , ee strain left side of back .
ee mentioned to his quarry supervisor that he was feeling some pain in his back and had been since the previous friday 7/31/2015 , but didn't notify anyone until 8/4/2015 . he told the supervisor the pain was getting worse so he needed to make an appointment .
ee went to see a dr on 7-17 and was placed on restricted duty . ee back company loader into vehicle of outside party .
injured was cutting a bad section of rockdust hose out with a razor knife , the blade broke . this cause the knife to slip off the hose cutting left wrist . cause not using the right tool for the job . ppe was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , compliance rules/regs could be a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
ee was cleaning the dash of a hual truck from the driver's seat area . he reached around the computer dispatch panel and his right hand went int he far right air vent . the vent was missing the cover and as his fingers went into the vent , hisright middle finger contacted the a/c fan motor blade and he received a laceration to the finger .
employee was riding mantrip underground . he ran over a hole/bump and felt his back pull and pop .
while attempting to lift chute into place the chute flipped over , striking him on the shoulder . emplyee received stitches in his upper left arm .
employee was installing nut on a bolt overhead when ee felt something in right eye . ee washed it out using eye wash. ee was sent to clinic where they did not find anything but prescribed eye drops .
the ee struck his head on the dash of the locomotive . stitches were used .
the ee was servicing a grove when she fell causing the injury .
pulling bolt over headroller and pried up on belt , block came up and struck ee in the jaw . medical treatment .
the intersection in the # 1 entry 1 block inby spad # 2259 fell . 21 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high . fall area was cribbed & dangered off . it will not be cleaned up .
ee was using a `` poker '' bar to remove frozen material from equipment lift cylinder when he slipped , striking his right hand against a section of plate steel on the equipment .
ee was carrying a crib block on her hip , the block slipped and when she grabbed at it she felt a pain in her lower back .
employee stated ee was lifting two joints of water line to clamp them together , and as ee lifted , ee felt pain in left shoulder and neck . this resulted in a strain and lost work days .
employee was pouring grease into a bucket to pour on # 2 mill gear ( due to lubricator not working ) sprain to back , went to family doctor , received a prescription for medication . no lifting 20 l bs for 2 weeks .
ee was carrying structure and hurt his back accident report was not recieved until 9-18-01 .
driver felt foggy and disoriented when truck finished being loaded . as ee drove away , felt hot and uncomfortable and stopped to get out for fresh air . as ee exited the truck feeling disoriented , stumbled from the step and fell to ground . a doctor said that dehydration and drop in blood pressure caused the disorientation resulting in the fall to ground and injury .
outer door switch located at the bottom landing of the hart street elevator did not functioning properly . safety parameters operated properly resulting in a audible alarm and an associated plc alarm . msha notified . received call from district 8 representative . replaced switch . no injuries .
employee went to the clinic due to shoulder irritation . ee returned to work on modified duty , the doctor thinks the irritation may have been caused by an incident that occurred in 2011 .
employee felt pain in abdomen while lifting high voltage cable . injury caused by employee overexerting self and not lifting properly . no mining equipment was involved and employee has proper training and was wearing required ppe . received information on 11/13/17 that employee has been diagnosed with a hernia . employee has not missed any work due to injury at this time .
ee was inside impactor , removing rock by hand and placing back into feeder . a 5 lb rock fell from the edge of the feeder ( 6 ' ) . it slid down the impactor and struck his hand that was resting on the rotor . fractured index finger tip on his left hand .
while operating the portable powerscreen jaw crusher , the employee had a rock fall from above that struck the operators control panel . the control panel door stuck the employee in the back . the extent of the injury to the employee was unknown so the emergency response team called an ambulance immediately . employee was taken to the emergency room .
ee was putting cribs under cont . miner when he stood up he felt his left knee pop .
ee was on top of beam , pipe fitting , stepped off of beam onto round tube with wire mesh on tube . wire mesh caught on boot , when he tried to step off , it caused him to fall and wire mesh stuck into left leg .
ee was rolling a section of track rail over with a slate bar and little finger on his left hand got caught between slate bar and mine roof .
employee was walking at the 65 sandplant when he slipped & caught himself - he felt discomfort in his back . he went to medic . at this time it was a report only . on his days off , he still felt discomfort & employee went to doctor -phys . therapy was ordered & follow up appt in 1 week . ( 1st shift missed was 10/17/2014 )
ee was kneeling down under a cat 777 truck usinga sledge hammer . as he swung the hammer , he missed his mark and lost his balance , falling backwards .
an unplanned roof fall occurred between 9/26/11 and 10/3/11 in the # 1 return entry of # 1 section approximately 5,000 ft off the section . fall was approximately 80'l x 18'w x 6 ' to 8'h and has been breakered off and is 3 breaks outby spad # 815 .
ee was awarded 5 % for an occupational pneumoconiosis claim .
employee was mucking out with the lhd when he ran over a rock and hit his head on the cab . employee pulled the muscles in his neck , he finished his shift then went to the doctor the next day and received medical treatment in as much as a prescribed pain killer . he returned to work the next shift , there was no lost time .
washing makedown mixer overflow of dry clay product off metal surface with water creating slick surface of clay and water . clay & water mixture does not properly drain at this location .
as the employee was roof bolting a rock ripped through the plastic mesh and struck him on the right forearm . sutures were required . msha reportable
the employee was working between the ballmills , when some dust went between the safety glasses and eye , resulting in material in the left eye .
replacing metal on chute to hammer mill , pulle muscle on right side .
he was driving a motor vehicl and has a collision . he sustained a laceration on his leg .
ee got on his knees to check the oil in the water truck . when he tried to stand up his right knee locked up . we think this is an occupational illness because he didn't do anything to cause a tear in his knee . there is nothing he or anyone could have done to prevent this . there is no accident . this shouldn't be considered a work injury but an illness .
partial tear of rotator cuff and tendon , possibly due to lifting a 25pound , five gallon bucket of material to empty into a dumpster . ee was placed on work restrictions on 11/30/10 .
ee was laying structure out of a scoop bucket . when he turned to place the structure ont he rib. , he strained his right knee .
employee was looking for a busted water line when the fall was found . the fall was located in the return travelway 40 feet inby spad no . 1938. it was reported outside and msha was notified . the area was dangered off until inspected . the fall was aprox . 150 ' long 4-6 foot thick . 55ton jacks and wooden timbers were installed to protect miners and the area affected .
ee was standing in front of the bucket when a rib roll occurred . a timber was knocked in the roll striking ee in the right ankle .
ee recently bid into a job involving cleanup . he was cleaning spillage off deck of cone crusher using a shovel . after the task he reported that his left elbow hurt , the same elbow injured sept 2002. doctor took him off work to let drugs eliminate inflamation . no skeletal injury . employee said he could continue his job except cleanup . ( lost time until doctor visit on 3/10 )
a customer-contracted long haul driver fell while accessing his flatbed truck onto his hands and knees , suffering abrasions and contusions on his palms and knees . due to the nature of his employment , we could not collect the following data : full name , ssn , dob , rtw data , and extent of injuries from hospital .
ee was repairing the water spray system on the finish grinding mill . he was lifting the spray housing cover over his head to hand to another ee when he felt a burning sensation in his shoulder . ee did not start missing time until 1/17/02 .
dump truck popped out of gear . truck went over berm into filled quarry hole . driver escaped from truck . driver went to rutland hospital and was checked by physician . no injuries were found .
employee was pushign brick on conveyor . he trapped his right index finger between two bricks and sustained a crush/pinch injury to the finger tip and nail .
cleaning settled product from the top of the rotex gear box . had broken up the material with the handle of his channel locks & proceeded to wipe it of the gear box with his hand . cleared off the front & then moved to side sliding his hand under the cover where his finger was struck by the cam .
a roof fall occurred on the 001-0 section in the # 5 entry , at 5b track . ventilation equipment norpassage of persons were effected . this area willbe rehabilitated .
ee climbing up step ladder ; left foot got caught up between rung and hinge on ladder - ee lost balance and fell to the floor landing on right shoulder and compressed left knee .
ee was helping get the miner un-stuck when the rib rolled striking his leg . this caused severe bruising and strain . he will be off for 2 or 3 weeks or so , with physical therapy and anti-blood clotting meds .
ee was removing a rock that had become lodged in the cone of the portable crusher : equipment was shut donw & locked out , at which time ee tried to remove the rock manually . at this time he complained of some pain in his lower abdominal area y
injured ee was clearing up the job site & was placing metal refuse into an open trailer when a piece of metal refuse dislodged from the refuse pile , came down & struck ee's left forearm above his glove . his left forearm was lacerated . first aid was administered at the job site & he was transported to the hospital . prognosis after surgery regaining full use of arm .
ee was loading rock-duster with dust . ee strained hemorrhoids out of rectum .
while an employee was installing a drive-line in a rubber tire dozer , ee felt a pop in ee's left bicep and experienced pain in the same arm . the diagnosis is a complete tendon tear .
ee stated that as he tried to tighten a chain boomer it slipped open and struck him in the mouth .
ee was walking on an access platform of a mill ball sorter . the ee missed a step and caught self with left arm to avoid falling . the ee felt a pain in left shoulder . employee sought medical attention the day of injury and was released to full duty . after a follow up evaluation with a orthopedic on 5/8/2017 , the employee was placed on restricted duty .
north 2 # 11 heading between 17 & 18 block mmu oo4 8ft . high x 18ft . wide x 40ft . long . fall dangered off . additional roof supports set around fall . type of supports 6'resin , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats .
stone fell on leg , which knocked ee onto a pallet hitting his knee and scraping his leg on a stone .
ee was assisting other ee in offloading 50 # sacks of anfo from a delivery truck . one employee in the line dropped a bag and this employee picked it up . he felt a pain in his lower back but finished the job . about 15 minutes later the pain increased and he was taken to town to seek medical attention . off work until recheck on 10/27
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 left panel off main east . the fall was in the no . 2 return entry about 30 ' to the right of survey station no . 236 and measured approximately 20 ' long by 15 ' wide by 6 ' high . the fall was approximately 1,400 ' ouby the working section and will not be cleaned up . there were no injuries or equipment involved .
a roof fall occurred at the 7 north shaft c approach . the fall was approx . 10 ' h. x 20 ' l. the fall did not interrupt ventilation or walkway . area dangered off . this is not an active area of the mine .
ee was working on a crew moving a shuttle car out of the mine . as ee was moving the trailing cable , the operator turned on the cable reel and the tension of the cable pulled the ee's wrist ( ri ght ) . after two days , the ee went to the emergency room and x-rays revealed a fracture ; a hard splint was applied .
injured stated he and co-workers were supplying the roof bolter . he said he picked up the 42 '' resin rebar and felt a pop in his back .
ee said he hurt his back lifting a cutting edge on monday , on thursday he said he hurt his back on wednesday prying on a rock from the jaw of the crusher .
ee was carrying two kennedy wall panels on his shoulders in 10 a 8 north section at approx . # 30crosscut when he stepped on a piece of coal thatwas lying on the bottom . this caused his right n knee to twist .
ee was working on a lime/water mixing tank . he stepped into a hole that contained water and thelime mixture . his foot was completely submerged for about 5 seconds . after about 5 minutes he noticed his foot felt like it was burning . he removed his boot and found his foot and ankle had multiple burns on them . he then returned to our shop and was taken to the hospital for treatment
roof fall approx . 16'2 '' wide x 15 ' long fell about 18 '' on one side and 4 ' on the other . it appeared to be weathered slate and shell with a little water . ( in # 8 entry 2200 ' outby face 2 ' inby s pad 5373 ) . this area was heavily cribbed before fall occurred .
ee slipped and fell at top of stairs , ee fell 10 feet his hand got caught between stairs & handrail , the ee's hand was amputated in the process .
while running a production mixer which blends saline with wollastonite a rubber transition seal between a product bin and the mixer over pressurized and blew apart . the overpressure is believed to be the result of a plugged exhaust line , chemical reaction or possible flammable vapor liberation within the mixer . no injuries were sustained .
he was watering batteries for a mantrip . the battery tray lid was up , but not propped or secured . the tray lid fell , struck him on the hard hat , pushed his head down against the tray causing a cut on his lower lip .
quarry truck driver had gone to rotan gin to check loaded weight of truck and trailer . he got out of his truck went to the window of the scale house to check weight ; once checked he was going back to his truck and stepped off a raised concrete porch that was uneven lost his balance and fell to concrete hitting his knee .
employee was traveling into section on a mantrip . the trip hit a hole on the travel way and bottomed out , jarring the employee . he was transported outside .
ee was cleaning the feed chute on # 3 dust slurry , dust fell to the bottom of the tank , got hot , and exploded back up through the feed chute , and then against ee right side of face and right ar m. restricted duty from job class begining 7-30-00
a coal seam fire started due to blasting in the area of job # 4 k cut reclaim . the fire is not close to anything that can be damaged and poses no threat to miners .
ee was working with a crew on a pin mixer and was in the process of identifing why it was hanging up . as other ee's were attempting to free the spinning shaft , it broke loose and spun towards the ee's hand , which was resting on the frame of the unit . one of the pins caught his gloved hand and crushed his right middle finger .
ee was standing on step ladder , slipped and fell fracturing 2 ribs on left side he was placed on restricted duty on 7-28-08
ee called the 402 and said that she hit a pot hole on the way to the 10 shovel . she was having pain in her neck and back .
ee was drilling roof when drill steel caught his glove on his lt. hand , rotating hand around steel , causing ligament damage to ring finger and a break in his small finger ( left hand ) .
removing equipment out of kiln . large piece of kiln coating weighing approx 150 lbs fell from top of kiln & hit ee on head & right shoulder . force of blow knocked ee to floor into some hot mat erial .
employee depressuring 1/2 '' steam hose . when employee opened valve hose moved causing steam to come in contact with lower left leg . resulting in 2nd degree burn .
employee s foot got caught between ram car center section when abruptly moved .
using wrench to release `` tight dog '' on railroad car . unable to file sonner as we were unaware employee had seen doctor and received prescription drugs .
ee stated was building a concrete block stopping , picked up a concrete block , turned and twisted right knee , possible strained knee . started missing work on 04-18-05
walking out of beltline tunnel at loadout - stepped on a piece of coal - turned ankle
ee slipped off ladder and fell to ground and struck his left elbow and back of his head .
ee was assisting in moving portable compressor and strained back . began missing work 11/01/06 .
employee was riding mantrip when foreign material got into his right eye . he was given prescription medication .
employee slipped on loose material as he attempted to catch himself from falling , he straine dhis shoulder .
a roof fall occurred on the # 1 unit , 2nd sw submain , spad 18+00 measuring 30'l , 20 ' , 8 ' ( in intersection ) . the fall will be loaded out .
excavator was loading a large rock into injured's truck , from the side . since excavator was loading from the side , he could not place the rock into the bed , he had to drop it . the weight of th e rock caused truck to rock . injured attempted to hold on and he felt pain in his back .
employee stated his right wrist became painful and goes to sleep after years of working on the brick crew and sandblasting . he began missing time with sugery on 09/09/2009 . this is an occupational illness .
ee was hooking up safety cable to truck frame . after he finished securing the pin into the cable and hook , he removed his gloves and notcied a cuton his left hand . laceration required one stit ch .
an equipment cleaner felt something enter his right eye while washing a production truck . later that day a physician diagnosed post tramatic conjunctivitis & prescribed medication . doctor's no tes were received on 9/17/01 . no foreign body was found .
employee had set face spads and was in the process of posting section , when a piece of draw rock measuring approximately 2 ' x 2 ' fell out between bolts , hitting him on the left hand .
occvupational disease . hearing loss claim . claim received 10-5-00 .
ee was parking dozer at the end of his shift as he was stepping off the dozer , he slipped on the dozer track and fell to the ground breaking his right hip .
ee was cleaning the mine floor in preparation of setting the next timber when a co-worker accidently dislodged a previously installed timber . the timber fell and struck him in the back .
the muck car was dumped at the rotary dump . when the hoist operator started out of the rotary dump the hoist would not move . the contracted electrician came out and looked at it . he tightened up some control leads in the vfd and the hoist operated . at this time he checked all electrical connections to insure that they were tight .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on the c-panel 1 left mains at spad station 4412. the fall measured 20'l x 20 ' w x8 ' h. # 4 entry ( belt )
ee was working at cement silos . while opening a valve he felt numbness in his right arm lower back . later he began to feel pain in his neck .
ee was rebuilding the tail pulley guards at plant using torches and grinder . at 1:30 pm realized his eye was very dry and irritated , continued to work & finished the day . around 5:30 pm at home his eye started to water . reported on 10/01/10 , and requested medical attention . dr. removed a rust flake from his right eye and gave prescription medication for the eye .
injured said he was helping other repairmen change a hyd . jack out on a ram car . they were lifting jack by hand to remove from car when one end of jack fell mashing injured's middle finger on left hand .
ee was tightening belt that holds skirting in place along feed belt that conveys product to plant rodmills . socket slipped ogg belt causing his right elbow to strike conveyor frame .
employee dropped tricon on his left foot , when it slipped out of his hands .
the maintance truck was used to travel to a tunnel to unclog a feeder jam . the employee left the vehicle idling , and when he returned to the truck observed smoke coming from the hood . the employee notified the shift supervisor and began spraying fire extinguishers . local fire department was called as employees continued to suppress the fire .
ee caughtt his left small finger between the roof bolter head and the drill steel .
ee was assisting rotating a piece of machinery by using a wire rope and a snatch block . the wire choker holding the snatch block in place failed and the pulley assembly stuck the ee's upper rt . thigh area . ee was examined at local e.r . that day and diagnosed with a deep contusion & released to work . ee continued to work reg.duties next few months . pain continued issued meds .
rock fall in # 2 entry of left return . fall is 6 ft to 8 ft high , 20 ft wide , 30 ft long .
ee stated that he got out of a piece of equipment and as he was walking around the equipment he stepped in a hole and twisted his knee .
injured was chipping nordbak on trunnion panel and felt something foreign inhis left eye . ( ee missed the 23 , 24th of may ) .
ee removing build up from k2 stage four vessel . after several power shots a quantity of material fell into the stage four cone and became lodged in the discharge . ee was able to shift the piece of material with steel rod . as the material end of the bar ee was holding on to was forced up striking ee on the right side of the jaw . laceration , fractured jaw and chipped teeth .
with supt removing flywheel off crusher , spacer pins buckled pinching employee's hand . employee refused treatment ; had full mobility of finger & hand . 6-2-15 employee reported everything was fine just sore & bruising . 6-9-15 employee complained of lack of full extension of pinky finger went to dr for eval & sent to specialist 6-10-15 specialist determined fracture & put in cast
employee was in the process of connecting a car puller cable to a rail car . the employee did not wait for the railcar to come to a stop before attempting to place the hook on the rail car . the hook on the car puller pinned the employees hand in between the car puller cable and the railcar . this resulted in the employee breaking a bone in his left hand .
ee was attempting to rehang a section of belt drive guarding ( which was found by him to be loose at one end ) . while doing so , a rock came off the belt , struck the guard causing it to be knocke d out of his hands and strike his left forearm .
injured was holding wrench and was removing a fitting on a hose when wrench slipped striking his index finger on lt hand causing cut to finger .
employees was working in mill with vac truck when he cut his rt side on a sharp object
employee was driving a ram car when he hit some holes in the roadway , causing him to bounce and hit the canopy with his head and then landed on his back . his back continued to bother him and h e had an mri on 2/20/04 . the results were positive for fluid build-up between disc spaces . he is currently working but sees a surgeon on 3/17/04 .
our examners found a roof fall during their weekly examination of the 5 west mains . the fall was located in the return of the 5 west at crosscut 40 , entry 2 to 3. the fall was located in the examiners normal route of travel .
ee was walking down an incline on a belt line , he slipped on an area of wet floor , fell & twisted his knee .
employee's foot slipped out from under him while he was dismounting bagging platform . fell approx 2 ft to platform and hit his leg on the way down . bruised hip , thigh , and lower leg .
employee went to a field toilet , when using the restroom he felt a bite like a fire ant in the groin area .
ee stated while changing rollers on the north beltline @ 36 block , he moved forward and struck his head on either the water line or the air line . after doing so he felt pain in his neck .
on 4/6/2010 , the ee had placed the 2 '' pump in the north bay of wheel wash reservoir and after it had drained , the pump sunk into the mud and as the employee pulled up on the hose and strap he felt a sharp pain in his right elbow . the employee went to the doctor on 4/9/10 and diagnosed with a tendon strain and given restrictions .
while walking along a wet/muddy conveyor path , ee slipped and twisted his leg/knee .
employee was handling longwall ram jacks , unloading them from a track vehicle when he felt a pulling & burning sensation in his rt . groin area .
a roof fall occured in the east mains , # 5 entry in the pillar line between crosscut # 30 and # 31. the fall measured approximately 60'x19'x5'-6 ' . the area was supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts and 6 '' square timbers . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall .
ee lifted leg and crossed over other leg to remove his work boot , causing his knee to dislocate . ee was in the bathhouse when this occured .
while drilling hole his glove stuck to pinnery steel & strained his right wrist . he did not report accident until 1/1/02 , was given bandage & medication for pain as needed .
repairman was walking over to his tool locker inside the south maint . shop prior to going back out into the plant . at approx . 11:10 am , he tripped over caked material , dried mud off the shop truck , and fell forward suddenly into the sw corner overhead door , causing a rt . foot injury . initial treatment w/ x-ray was neg . continued working reg . duty until 12/19/03 then restricted .
injured ee was dismounting from cab of d-7 . evidence indicates he was not facing the equipment and did not maintain 3-point contact . his hsoe caught on a saw toothed safety step and he fell ap pro . 30 inches to ground , twisting his knee . he was released for modified duty , but has not returned to work .
while working as a bolter helper on the diesel track bolter at 137 block 9 south haulage , the employee pinched his right thumb and index finger between two steels while aligning them , resulting in 8 sutures . no problems with mining machines , methods , ppe , or compliance issues .
employee was climbing off a vibratory screen . employee stepped from top of screen onto the top of the spring perch located on the side of the screen . employee lost his footing and fell approxi mately two feet striking his cheek on a handrail .
employee's right ring finger was caught between the lid of an scsr cache resulting in a laceration that required 11 sutures .
ee caught right knee on sharp edge of packet spout while stepping from packer chair to the floor . he cut knee . required stitches and tetanus shot , thus constituting msha reportability .
ee was blocking off some unneeded shower heads and cut his thumb on his right hand . three stitches were needed .
ee was fueling up a welder when gasoline splashed on the hot manifold and ignighted the welder which was mounted on a truck . the welder and a 1989 ford 350 4x4 pickup burned to the ground .
washing & cleaning up in bird building , moved some five gallon buckets & felt pain in back . he did not go to doctor immediately hoping pain would ease . ee had back surgery in 1993. he is now t aking therapy . still performing regular work activities .
ee was climbing onto a caterpillar 980 loader . when he reached the top step , his foot slipped and he fell to the ground , landing in the 3 '' surge pile . he suffered cuts and bruises to his right knee and both hands .
a supply truck for beckley welding had an acetylene bottle catch on fire & the fire burned longer than 20 min . state & fed . were notified . beckley welding has been contacted & requested to ins pect bottles & nozzles before delivery to our sites .
ee was washing a piece of equipment with a high pressure washer & something entered his eye . he reported the incident on jan. 30 & was taken to er for the removal of a foreign body from r eye .
ee was inspecting airline for a leak when the air line broke from fitting and he was hit with compressed air ( 90-95 psi ) and foreign material inside air line . injury to right hand and upper right arm and shoulder .
while the ee was fixing a piece of equipment he strained his left lower arm .
while removing a blow bar from a hazemag crusher employee was hitting it with a hammer to loosen it . a piece of metal went into left shin .
employee was tapping drive gear into a tram shaft with a crib tie and felt pain in his right arm and shoulded . had mri and was diagnosed with a torn rotor cuff and torn bicep muscle .
ee is a scoop operator , supplying the roof bolter . he went to get a water on the offside of the bolter . the rear rubber tire ran over the right foot-causing bruise . ee was wearing metatarsal boots .
ee was working in the north side of the feed ingredients plant . they were lowering a duct for the new scrubber . the weather was dry and windy that day . a hole was cut in the roof to lower duct through . ee was wearing safety glasses and hard hat when dust came down from the roof level . a particle of dust became entrapped in his left eye .
the driver just finished off loading his 1st load of blasting agant at the blast pattern & was getting the truck ready to travel to the batch site to re-load . he had removed the funnel from the end of the discharge auger & moved the auger into the saddle it rides in while driving & had picked up the funnel to place it in carrying mount when the auger came out and hit him .
fall was found at 1st left off 2 south mains at 1 crosscut inby spad 1058 to 1055 no.2 intersection . roof support was 6 ' torque tension bolts.fall was 100 ' long x 20 ' wide .
ee in getting under loader for inspection and repair heard his back pop , then realized the following morning that he needed his back looked at .
# 3 production hoist drive converter `` b '' tripped due to a ground fault warning .
ee was making a hole in a block stopping upper right corner with a tiack hammer , when attempting to strike the wall the hammer hit the metal strap and dislodged a piece of rock 12 ' dia , ee was struck on the right shoulder . ee complained next day loss of grip and some numbness to the right side of neck .
injured was repairing a leak in a discharge pump pipe near a highwall . the pipe was chained off to keep it from going over highwall . the coupler was removed from two sections of pipe and when the injured pulled on the pipe to separate them , the pipe sprang upwards , striking the injured in the upper lip .
flipping a rock on it's side . hand slipped off and he tripped over a pallett and hit his shoulder . he lost his balance .
changing a blow line from 1 pipe to another . there was no air pressure on the line when the accident occurred . the line slipped off the pipe , whipped around and hit ee in the face . ee has a deviated septum ; will have open nasal reduction surgery 08/10/04 .
employee was returning tools to his truck after repairing a light plant . when he turned to begin walking , he tripped and fell over the tongue of the light plant landing on his left elbow . the area was well lit . x-rays on 3/21/08 were negative . he had an mri on 4/21/08 . he underwent surgery to repair an avulsion of the left triceps tendon on 4/25/08 .
employee states that he pulled the ventilation curtain down to install a center line and was struck by a piece of rock that would weigh 35 lbs . the rock fell approximately 11 inches and struck employee on right shoulder . employee had an xray c-scan and an mri and all were negative . employee complains of numbness in right leg and difficulty in walking .
employee was sitting down under a belt and grabbed hold of the structure to stand up and his left knee popped and he fell to the ground . an mri revealed on 4/15/2013 that the employee had a tear of the medial cartilage or meniscus in his left knee and is off work and is now a lost time injury .
employee is stating that he felt back pain on 4-16 and 4-21 while performing duties as a deckhand on a coal barge . employee sought medical attention on 4-21. ee had degenerative spine disease .
reportable only due to sutures - employee had put e-bolt in and was under the shield on the longwall when a rock fell glancing off an employee's hard hat striking his left hand causing laceration requiring sutures .
informed on 3/9/2013 that miner did not come back to work after his days off stating he hurt his back and hips the previous work days . while driving lhd miner ran over a rock and it jarred him causing pain in his back and hips .
ee was turning off the back engine of his scraper . when he was getting down , he slipped off the step and hit his elbow and twisted his arm .
ee was climbing down from 988f loader when he slipped and fell , hurting his lower back ( contusion ) .
ee was pulling miner cable out from under gob and feet sllipped and he fell backward onto mine floor and his back struck a big lump of coal .
injured was handling miner cable when the cable dropped . as he caught the cable below his waist , he strained his shoulder . he worked it several shifts and then visited a physician and an ortho pedic surgeon , who placed him on restricted dutyand has scheduled an mri .
ee was putting a section of a belly back on a dozer . the section was hanging from a chain . ee was lying under the dozer . the section fell and caught ee's right arm . ee jumped and hit his right cheek bone on the section of belly pan and cut his cheek .
the ali-mak elevator had been ridden to the surface by some dayshift employees and was sent back to the bottom for others . no people were on board when the elevator stopped about 75 ' short of the bottom . a `` clang '' sound was heard by a person on the surface and it was found that a cable guide had broken .
3 contractors listed in 11 were welding a eye bolt to an ibeam at the collar elevation of the service shaft . they were using a p5 rod splatter rod while welding same splatter fell down the sha ft. after welding , they noticed a small blue flame a couple of hundred feet down the shaft . it extinguished on its own .
ee was moving a pallet of bricki . fork slipped causing finger to get caught between forks and brick resulting in a cut to ee right middle finger .
employee was picking up a brick off of a stack of bricks while turning with brick in his rt . hand he struck the forktruck lift bars causing a laceration/contusion on the tip of his thumb . he was taken to hospital and received five ( 5 ) stiches in his thumb . he did not miss work .
work crew in the pit were moving a quarry saw when the arm of the saw struck the higwall causinga piece of slate ~10 ' x 8 '' x 4 '' to dislodge . it fell and glanced of the hard hat of the injured worker , striking him in the left shoulder , breaking the scapulal bone .
ee filed for occupation pneum on 3-23-00 .
ee was getting off forklift , slipped & fell to ground ; fell back against forklift . ee continuedto work until 1/10/02 .
ee was exiting r-motor , he placed his right foot on the step and when he swung his left leg around he lost his balance and fell to the floor . he felt something snap in the right knee .
ee was raking gators off the grate at the end of the kiln when he felt pain in his left arm , lower back and left leg . ee went to the doctor and was released to full duty till the root cause of the pain was determined . ee will be having orthoscopic surgery on april 26 , 2005 on his left shoulder . this will be the first time he will have missed any work due to this injury .
based on the information received from those present at appears that the ignition was caused when the continuous mining machine was cutting roof rock that had fell on footwall when a spark ign ited an unknown methan bleeder on the footwall . msha notified investigation conducted .
ee was jostled in an elevated man basket and struck his low back on a handrail .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in an untraveled entry of the b-11 section . the fall occurred in the intersection of the # 2 entry and # 5 x-cut . it measured approx 20'x 20 ' x 7'h . no injuries , msha was notified .
filed for hearing loss . alledged .
he was welding inside a gravel car , when exiting the car his foot slipped and he felt pain in the groin area . he continued to work at his regular futies but continued to have pain . he eventually went to a physician and was diagnosed with a hernia . he was removed from work on january 8 , 2010 for surgery to repair a right hernia .
ee slipped on ice .
employee was on the 7th ring of the tank was to move the drive out ladder , employee was not wearing proper ppe and did not follow proper procedure in moving drive out ladder . smashed rt ring finger between ladder and panel .
ee was pulling up buckets of bolts to work site during his shift . ee did not have any real pain in his shoulder and did not report the pain/injury to his foremen until shift start the next day . ee had surgery ( 13 years ago ) to right shoulder . ee was placed on lifting restrictions of his right arm/shoulder by the doctor .
contractor was hauling perlite ore to the socorro plant and as ee was dumping the ore would not slide out , the truck and trailer weren't parallel causing the trailer to flip on its side . after further investigation it was found that the tailgate was never opened .
ee felt lower back pain when lifting 60 '' belt roller .
the truck shop boiler makers were assigned to clean up behind the bed repair area . employee was directing using hand signals for ee on the forklift to separate two sheets of 600 plate . employee signaled the operator to lift the plate to install a 4x4x4 piece of wood to place between the plates . while twisting and pushing employee felt a pull in the lower center of his back .
ee stepped down from steps onto approx 3 '' x6 '' patch of ice located on platform grating , slipped , and caught finger in floor grating as he fell .
during the plant outage , employee was attemptingto scotch the raw mill with a 4 '' x 4 '' x 5 ' angleand he slipped on grinding balls , which caused him to lose his footing . when he fell , the angle struck him , pinching his finger .
ee was walking toward a truck which had been involved in an incident earlier . he stepped on a rock & twisted his ankle .
1 break out-by spad # 5460 in # 2 entry , a fall 18 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' occurred . ventilation was not affected , there was a 3 '' rider seam abouve the coal seam
was lowering his dirty clothes basket and hooked second clothes basket , eye bolt broke on 2nd basket & fell hitting ee on top of head . 2 & 1/2 '' laceration , 9 stitches to close wound .
an unplanned roof fall was discovered by the weekly examiner 2100 ft outby the # 2 section right return # 7 return near spad 5753. fall measured 60 ' long by 19 ' wide by 12 ' high . this area will not be cleaned up .
ee was changing at tilt cylinder on no . 2 lhd cylinder shifted and pinched finger between frame of machine & cylinder , causing fracture .
hoist drum brake locked up while hoistman was running throug his pre-shift check . hoistman tried to reset computer , would not reset . electrical relay failed to operate properly . screw on contact cross bar was loose .
ee was walking past the miner when a piece of rock fell striking ee on the hard hat , shoulder , back and landing on his lower leg causing of injury was awareness and not pulling down loose doub tful top . compliance with rules/regs was a factor personnel protective equip not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equip/systems not a factor .
two ee's were attempting to clear a plugged sample point piping , which is a routine duty . as they attempted to clear the pluggage , the sample point piping assembly sheared off from the process pipe it was attached to causing caustic solution to spray both ee's . ee's sustained 2nd and 3rd degree chemical burns .
ee was drilling into a drag conveyor box . the drill bit caught , twisting the drill and the ee s hand , breaking a bone in the hand .
running from a flyrock , tripped on gravel , fell , hurt left leg & left arm
eea contract employee for jp technical services , was in process of changing an `idler ? on the 345 backhoe when his little finger caught a jagged piece of metal ( on the side of the idler ) resulting in a laceration which required seven ( 7 ) stitches .
ee was driving a personnel carrier down a travel road . he ran over something or hit a hole in the roadway and injured his back .
employee was cleaning a plugged chute in the k screen splitter . the employee reached inside splitter to remove ore from pipe . the splitter caught his coverall pulling his hand inside and crus hing his left hand .
was clearing out an chute with a large pry bar and struck a peice of metal in 2nd and 3rd between the two . got 3 stitches .
ee was walking around his shuttle car at the beginning of his shift , performing his pre operational exam when he slipped and fell . he caught himself with his left hand and in the process fract ured his left index finger .
ee was in # 2 entry helping tuber take down a tube when the rib rolled out from behind the tube and struck him on the left leg and ankle . the injury was diagnosed as a fracture of the left foot .
while welding and grinding on a 773 end dump truck frame , a piece of metal lodged in his eye . he was unaware until 1-20 when irritation sent him for medical help to remove a piece of metal . re ceived a prescription for pain pills .
this injury became reportable on 7/28/2018 when ee received a sedentary return-to-work release . employee was walking across backfill material on uneven ground to access the trash pump at the lower sump in the silverstar pit and twisted right knee .
employee was splitting a piece of stone with a 4 lb hammer and stone chisel when he was struck in the right eye by a stone fragment which entered over the top edge of glasses . he admitted his safety glasses had slid down his nose due to perspiration , exposing his eyes to injury . dr diagnosis : traumatic conjunctivitis , perscription medication given
injured was bolting # 1 entry . after drilling he let boom down got one of drill steel loose from another piece that was hung up in hole . he was reaching to get steel when he had his left hand o n drill pot , the top piece of drill steel fell out of hole and hit his left hand , injuring his little finger .
employee was working on p-348 ; as he was walking aroung p-219 to get to p-348 , he slipped on some ice and hit his left knee on the ground . this did not become a recordable until 3/16 , when the employee went off to have surgical repairs to the knee .
ee slipped on ice that was covered with water .
employee was making fireboss run operating a small mantrip when the steering wheel of the mantrip whipped around catching two of the employees fingers causing a fracture
left shoulder still bothering ee when turning steering wheel on wa 500. therapy recommended only .
while walking from the section to mantip at the end of the track , she slipped in approx . 2 inches of mud falling towards a co-worker who caught her before she fell to the ground twisting her l eft knee . the injury was diagnosed as a strain .
employee was walking to the mantrip station when ee stepped in a hole and strained lower back and right knee .
ee was loading truck , had stabbing pain in back . no one witnessed the accident .
ee was sitting in a gator and a powder truck backed into it . ee felt pain in neck and upper back , notified supervisor but did not wish to see doctor . pain didn't go away , saw doctor on 12/12/14 . diagnosed with a whiplash type injury and referred for chiropractic therapy . released to full duty .
mechanic was working on a truck tightening pto shaft . wrench slipped in tight spot and mechanichit his elbow on hydraulic pump . sought medical attention as condition worsened over the next few days . he was emamined and given celebrex andreleased to return to work .
while removing a 6 ' siding panel that had been installed with tape caulk on sides , when the panel was pulled hard enough to release the seal , it gave loose and the top of the panel fell over to the side and struck the ee on the upper wrist about 3/4 '' above his kevlar gloves .
employee was walking off a slab when ee sprained ee's ankle
# 3 hoist east brake would not release as the brake line was frozen . there were still several escapeways to surface available for personnel underground .
internal audit found need to report . ee was was bending over equipment while fixing it . while pulling out an air hose he felt a sharp pain in his back .
employee stated that he was doing a pre-shift inspection on the loader when he began to cough which caused him to slip and hurt his back . he reported this to the leadman later that morning . reported as first aid . began losing time on 5/7/07 allegedly due to the incident on 1/9/07 .
driving truck out of pit when land shifted causing front end to raise & then bounce on ground . ee hit head on steering wheel & bruised hand . ee verified that he was wearing his seat belt .
this is a re-injury of an accident that was medical only . ee has since had out-patient surgery to repair knee . ee was installing breast plate in secondary crusher , standing on v-belt guard and stepped down onto coupling guard . the guard shifted causing ee to lose balance and fall .
employee and 3 coworkers were splicing the 3a belt which had a split . while installing a 12 ft piece of belt , the wire rope used to sheave the belt slipped from the single crosby clamp , which caused the belt to lose tension . the come-a-longs jerked to the side striking injured in the stomach . while checking the scissors used to hold the belt clamp came loose and struck shoulder .
while working on welding repairs of # 3 kiln unax coolers , hot metal from area being welded fell in left shirt sleeve causing 2nd degree burns on his left upper arm . cleaned , then applied silverdine cream 1 % , applied & dressed with adaptic & gauze .
while getting out of crane , ee slipped on crane decking and grabbed crane handrail to prevent falling , pulling his right shoulder . restricted duties .
employee was trouble shooting headlamp circuit on kubota tractor . ee was standing in front of right rear tire when ee rotated ignition key . the engine started , causing the tractor to move forward , allowing the rear tire to contact left lower leg and ankle . resulted in sprain/bruise of left lower leg .
employee was driving a haul truck when ee suffered a back injury .
after ee had been working on hands & knees ee was walking up the stairs and felt and heard a pop from the right knee with immediate pain and it hurt to put weight on the right leg
an unintentional roof fall was found in the north east mains , # 1 entry , 10 ' inby spad station # 3188 , between footage marks 28+75 & 26+65 . the fall measured 150'l x 18'w x 5'h . this area was supported wth 5 ' torque tension bolts , roof mat & oversized bearing plates ( 8 '' x 8 '' ) . this area was developed 7-29-04 .
employee was turning the cap that holds the oil in the trunion bearing . the cap was stuck to the shut off valve and would not release . he continued to try and twist the cap off . when it gave way he reported feeling a strong burning pain in his groin .
ee was installing i-beams across intersection of slope when he strained right shoulder after attempting to lift beam over his shoulder
employee was reaching through the drag to check the bulkhead flopgate under the clinker cooler . while prying he felt a snap inside his right elbow that caused severe pain .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at the logan's fork mine 15,000 ft from the active face outby at crosscut 2.3 spad # 243. the fall was 19'w and 4-5 ' high . no injuries were reported and ventilation was not affected .
ee cut the web of his left hand on a pipe . two sutures were used .
1/16/06 , an unintentiona roof fall occurred in the # 8 return entry at the # 6 crosscut of the # 4 working section . the area was supported with 6 ' fully grouted roof bolts , the roof fall measured 18 ' x 18 ' x 10 ' h. this roof fall will not be cleaned up .
roof fall on belt & track in # 3 entry 2900 ' outby face located at spad # 165 , length 52 ' , width 40 ' height 6 ' .
victim is groundman/padman on highwall miner . was using a hand operated drill with an auger bit . bit got bound ; handle on drill hit the back of employee's hand when it spun around . two bones fractured by the impact ( metacarpal bones leading to the index & middle fingers ) . victim was taken to the hospital by the foreman ; hand was put in a cast .
ee was operating the roof bolter in the # 5 heading on 003-0 section when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on the right leg . ee was given 2 days off work but he did not return for his nex t scheduled shift .
employee was utilizing a angle grinder to remove built up slag from the screen deck . while grinding a piece of metal recocheted off the work area and got under the employee's safety glasses and face shield . employee went to er 3 days later and was given prescription medicine for pain .
employee was removing rust from a pump stuffing box with a chipping hammer . when he took off his hard hat & glasses a piece of rust got into his rt . eye . ee was taken to company dr. on 11/01/04 where a piece of rust was removed . he was given an antibiotic to prevent infection .
employee was using a pry bar to clear a blocked hopper . pry bar rebounded and employee lost control of the hand tool . end of the pry bar ee was holding onto came back and struck ee's face . impact caused a broken tooth that will be extracted .
ee was moving the miner cable and injured his lower back .
miner loader shuttle car started to load 2nd car in # 6 heading when had ignition in face . no workers were injured . no equipment damaged was only a flash with no duration . investigated by msha .
ee driving a haul truck . ee fell asleep and ran into edge of pillar underground . ee taken to er that day and released with no restrictions . ee taken to dr on monday , march 9 and placed on restrictive duty .
ee was splicing a conveyor belt when a small piece of metal chipped off knocker and struck rightindex finger . wound required two stitches after getting metal out of finger .
employee was pulling screens off a screen box . screen broke free and he hit his elbow on box . reported to his supervisor but refused medical treatment . requested medical evaluation on 2/6/2015 . diagnosis : lateral epicondylitis ( aka tennis elbow ) .
employee was opening airlock door to bring scoop through . he had one door open and his shoulder against the other door and his head was down when the open door closed and struck him on the hea d , left & right side of his neck .
employee smashed his left thumb with 3 pound sledge hammer while driving a bushing into scam on differential . employee did not leave work - first aid was provided . emp . called supervisor at approx . 7:30pm and stated that his thumb didn't look good and wanted to go to the dr. emp . was met at er . diagnosis was small fracture . emp . was given rx and released to full duty .
employee and partner were removing p-4 conveyor return idler . as it was being shoved into the man basket it tipped , pinching the mechanic's finger between the idler frame and the man basket ha ndrail . the injured went to the clinic the same day where the contusion was treated .
while ee was moving old cross ties so he could move backhoe , he pulled a smucle in left shoulder .
ee was attempting to remove wheel studs from the haul truck . as the hub rotated he lost his footing and fell to ground level .
ee was using a 16 lb . sledge hammer to slug downbase bolts on ac3 mill . next day he told his supervisor that his shoulder was still bothering him and requested to see a doctor . he was diagnose d with a strain and placed on modified duty .
type v support 8ft . swellex and 16ft . super swellex . while installing the 8ft bolts in the back at the 3600 level of the benbow decline , the bolter operator observed ground movement . the bolter was pulled back and shot-crete was applied . the operator then made ready the required 16ft long support , before installation of the 16ft . bolts the ground failed above the 8ft . bolts .
an inintentional roof fall was discovered 2300 ft outby the face of 004 mmu at spad # 2091. the fall measured approximately 20 ft wide x 20 ft long x 4 1/2 - 5 ft high .
a roof fall occurred on the # 3 unit t-panel set up entries , in # 2 entry at spad 4 and 80. the fall originated in an intersection and measured approx 20 ' by 20 ' by 8 ' high . the fall was in by the section loading point .
ee was troubleshooting malfunctioning lab equipment when glassware broke & lacerated right index finger .
employee ran over a big rick while running a 631 e scraper . he was dumping on waste dump when he hit rick . it jarred his body when he hit the rock.. when he woke up the next morning he was una ble to move head from side to side .
as a mechanic was lowering a d8 dozer to the floor , he caught his hand in a pinch point between the boggie roller and the track frame as he attempted to guide the load . he sustained multiple lacerations of the right hand , but no broken bones . his wounds required stitches .
while fueling up equipment , ee stepped into a hole and sprained his ankle .
the ee bent over to look under a leach vessel and pulled a muscle in his back .
injury said that he was trying to exit the scoop & his foot got stuck under the starting box . he twisted his knee trying to get out . he said if the foreman would take it easy on him , he wouldn't go outside and fill out an acc . rpt or go home and seek medical attention . there were two witness besides the foreman to this statement .
the injured picked up the miner cable and waterline to move it out of the way when ee felt pain and tightness in the upper part of back .
ee was not wearing safety glasses or shield when using a grinder . he got metal in his eye .
climbing down off grizzley on jaw , stepped out of jaw landed in rocks , twisted ankle , ankle hit rock .
while lifting miner cables , ee felt a pain in the left testicle .
employee was pulling miner cable when a rock fell on left ankle . took to pikeville medical center for evaluation of injured ankle , x-ray showed no major injury , nothing broken . employee received 3 days off - paid by employer - saturday , monday , & tuesday .
employee was walking along belt line to change belt rollers . while walking he slipped on uneven mine floor rolling his right ankle and fell to mine floor . ppe was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
lost power to main hoist resulting in the reprograming of computer system . power restored , computer reprogramed hoist resumed normal operation 2:20pm
the plant lost utility power , disabling the secondary escapeway . a mine evacuation immediately commenced in the primary escapeway using the emergency generator . after partial evacuation , the g enerator malfunctioned . a rental generator was immediately acquired and evacution of the miners was completed at 5 pm .
employee was getting out of lo-trac to move a slider line curtain when ee got leg caught between bumper and frame of machine causing a contusion to lower leg .
ee was desending ladder from the crusher control tower , strained muscle in back while climbing .
tightening bolts on the cover of b bin screw . wind blew dust into left eye .
employee was jacklegging and when raising leg it stopped and suddenly raised upward striking employee in mouth and right side of face . this resulted in complex right lower lip laceration , right cheek laceration , depressed fracture anterior wall right maxillary sinus , fractured teeth
ee was checking the water level on a michigan 175c wheel loader due to the fact the radiator was overheating . when the ee loosened the radiator cap he got sprayed with steam and boiling water on his right arm & hand and right trunk body area which caused 1st & 2nd degree burns .
ee stated that he was adjusting his welding hood when something entered his eye . stated that a piece of dirt or something was on the hood and it fell off into his eye while placing hood on his head .
unintentional roof fall on spruce # 2 entry near spad # 10068. dimensions : 40 ' ( l ) x 20 ' ( w ) x 8 ' to 9 ' ( h ) .
ee went to step onto wet steps and her foot slipped . she fell on her right knee and cut it as well as swelling that started to occur . she went to the clinic that day and was put on restricted duty .
an unplanned roof fall occured at # 1 section # 5 entry near spad # 863. ventilation and passage of persons were not affected . no equipment was involved and no personal injuries reported . fall measured 30 ' in length , 20 ' width and 4 ' high . all approached have been breakered off and will be rehabilitated .
while loading copper cathode onto 4 stripping machine receiving conveyor , employee had one copper cathode fall from cathode strongback and hit thumb on left hand causing an avulsion to left thumb .
on 1/28/00 the ee was walking around a roof bolter and fell when he stepped on some slick bottom . the ee twisted his left knee when he fell . the ee did not miss work but had knee surgery on ma rch 14 , 2000 .
ee stepped over a beam in the walkway ; used to slide a shaft out . he stepped off the bottom step and caught his foot on the chain , his foot rolled it to the inside , he thought he had just twisted it . sat 7:30am he called the safety dir and told him about it , bruising and swelling . told him to see a dr. fracture to rt.fibula , dr visit mon soft boot and limit movement .
ee was doing electrical work on an electrical box on the quarry conveyer belt , stripping a wire to make a connection , using a box cutter blade . blade slipped off wire and cut left wrist , required 8 stitches to close .
employee was lifting 30 '' conveyor headpulley from conveyor while using chain from end to end of pulley . when he broke pulley bearings loose from conveyor , the difference of weight ( because of gear reducer ) caused the load to shift on crane hook pinching his left thumb .
the injured was preparing to install the 1st bolt of the 4th row of the 9 rt place . while moving the head , a rock measure 5 ft cause fell out between the canopy and t bar and rib . the rock str ike the canopy and slid into the boom area striking the injured in the legs . the impact broke the lower left leg .
our maintenance mechanic was doing pre-operational inspection and preventative maintenance on a hitachi eh 1100-5 haul truck on the morning of wednesday , april 19 , 2017. as ee was exiting the equipment ee slipped on the bottom step and fell to the ground . landing on right side causing pain to this area .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd east entry in # 10 entry spad 69+20 measuring approx . 100 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . the area had been bolted with 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts in early may of 2006. the fall was apparently caused by a hidden slip in the mine roof .
ee was showering at end of shift . he had completed shower and shut off hot water and cold water . apparently hot water valve did not shut completely and hot condensate approximately 216 degrees came out of shower head burning left shoulder , back and upper arm . water heated to 216 deg because of faulty steam regulator to control valve .
employee was spinning the longwall shearer drum to change bits , his hand got caught between a shearer bit and the shield . this cause a laceration that took 8 stitches to close . the laceration was between the thumb and finger on right hand .
ee was positioning a ventilation tube when it came and struck him on his head , neck , and shoulder off since 4/18/2006 .
ee was servicing a drill rig when he slipped and twisted his ankle .
ee has a standard threshold shift of an average of 25 db in the frequecnies of 2000 , 3000 , 4000 hz in his left ear . this was discovered from his annual audiogram results , which were received on 4/8/03 . ee was retested on 4/17/03 & the results received on 4/24/03 supported the previous test .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal in the 5 seam ( which is inactive and mined out ) at 675 west / 1425 north , # 4 entry . the fall was approximately 30 feet long , approximately 15 feet wide and approximately 6 feet thick . the fall area will be resupported according to the msha approved resupport plan . fall # 29a
during longwall preparation for recovery employee was helping to lift and hang a roll of screen above shields . employee complained of low back pain .
a methane ignition occurred as informed by the miner operator while cleaning up the cut at the face of # 2 entry of 3 west gate section . the left side of the machine while on the left side of t he cut is where an orange ball of flame appeared according to the miner operator . the flame was short duration and traveled only a couple feet . cause was mining through vein & methane built u
miner was feeding a pugmill with fel . material was wet and plugged feed bin opening . miner struck sides of bin with a sledge trying to loosen material . apparently strained back . reported it to foreman at end of shift . extent of injury not reported until 4-9-01 .
as ee removed 55 gal . grease barrel from pallet the barrel slipped , putting strain on his knee . there was no initial medical treatment . ee saw am.d . for treatment on 11/16/01 .
ee was using a box for a stepladder . the box collapsed & she fell to the floor . pain in neck , arm , & lower back area .
ee had his rt . arm resting on the canopy of a shuttle car when the car began to tram his rt . elbow was wedged between the canopy and the roof . the mine was idle from 6-22-02 to 7-8-02. ee returned to work on his next regularly scheduledshift ( 7-8-02 ) on restricted duty .
i was climbing down into the possumbelly of the tyrock screen . i slipped and slid down about 3 ' . when my right foot hit the conveyor belt , i dislocated my right ankle .
wireman was installing a control transformer in motor starter compartment using a hand threading tool to tap threads into two existing holes in the back wall of the compartment . the tap's pointed end penetrated the wiring which ran along the back side of the compartment metal wall thereby causing the short circut from the energized wire to the ground via the thread tap .
employee has a history of back pain . no specific incident . received diagnosis of degenderative disc disease . l4-5 diffuse disc bulge & facet & ligamentous hkypertrophy cause moderate central stenosis & mid - moderate bilateral neural foramina narrowing .
ee was attempting to remove a pin out of a snow plow assembly on a triaxle with a 5 lb hammer and punch . ee struck the punch twice and the pin did not move . on the third attempt , ee swung the hammer with more force and missed the punch and the hammer struck the top of ee's left thumb . left thumb is swollen , but fortunately no broken bones .
ee was welding a patch above the jaw crusher and he drove a piece of 4 '' channel iron into the gap between the jaw pittman and the hopper above the serve as a seat . when repositioning his body , the channel slipped out allowing him to fall into the jaw crusher , catching his fall with his left hand , wrenching his shoulder .
removing basket off clemro crusher , employee's hand got caught in a pinch point between basket and motor guard .
ee was lifting a 100,000 lb a-frame with the 100 ton link belt crane using two 7,300 lb nylon chokers . one of the chokers slipped shifting the load to one choker which broke allowing top of the a-frame to fall across the cab with the injured employee inside .
person was cleaning spillage at transfer point at breaker bldg . when chute above him plugged up with rocs . the material started to spill over and person turned to leave the area and pulle musc le/hamstring in upper part of left leg .
haul truck operator was bending over to get into the cab of ee's cat 777 haul unit and felt a sharp pain in ee's lower back . the pain persisted and ee notified ee's supervisor and was sent home . the next day ee went to the clinic and was diagnosed with sciatica . ee was placed on light duty for 1 week . ee returned to work on 8/26 .
location of fall : no.1 section ; entry : 1 ; spad no . : one break inby spad 22 ; distance from active face:590 ft ; no personal injuries , no equip . involved ; airway : neutral ; size of fall : l-22ft , w-19ft , h-4.5ft . ; 48 '' resin with roof mats ; no cribs or timbers installed prior to fall ; strata : shale , wet ; no coal rider seam present ; entrances are not breakered off ; area will be rehab .
the injured was entering the mine on a 2 man diesel ride . as he traveled down the slope the engine died . as he restarted the engine the mantrip was picking up speed . he was planning to gear it down , but the engine died again . he applied thebrakes , but stated they would not hold . he continued down the slope and struck a parked lo-trac at the bottom . will be off 4-6 wks . fracutred ri
while backing drill into a working face , ee tripped on a rock while walking backwards . ee fell against the face injuring his rt . shoulder .
lifting a section of screen grate inside ( a ) section area to be welded on . when lifting the grate ee felt a pain in groin area .
the injured was operating a shuttle car and ran into a hole in the haulageway . when the shuttle car hit the hole , it bounced the individual causing him to strike his head against the shuttle car canopy resulting in strain to his neck .
an unintentional roof fall occurred approximately 100 ' inby ss # 3405 in the # 5 entry of the 003 mmu retreat mining section . the dimensions of the fall were approxiamtely 7'h x 15'w x 20 ' l .
when coal was pushed on top of fedder , the dome collapsed allowing methane to enter the engine compartment of the d-10-l dozer . the methane was ignited from the diesel engine exhaust system causing the dozer to become engulfed in flame . the dozer operator received burns to both forearms and left side of face .
ee was standing on an extension ladder about 6 ' off floor level . there was no place to tie the ladder so another person was holding the ladder . falling dust got into the eyes of the ladder hol der and he released the ladder to clean his eyes . the ladder slipped causing the worker to fall . the fall protection caught the worker but allowed his foot to strike something .
a roof fall occured on 3a submain , # 1 entry crosscut 34. the fall is 40 ' long , 18 ' wide , unknown hight .
contractor was removing strap from bars being hoisted up onto the cooler deck . bar slipped and cut his rt hand , 2nd finger . he realized he was cut ( he had work gloves on ) he went to 1st aid room and applied bandages . when he changed bandage later at home it was still bleeding . he sought medical help and received a tetanus shot , was re-bandaged and rtw the next day on modified duty .
the ee was assisting in removing broken lifters and washing raw material from the dryer appron feeder when material flushed out and he was pulled onto the pile of lifters that had been removed and stacked to the side . when the ee fell over the pile it bruised and twisted his left knee .
ee was removing a brake disc from haul truck . brake disk weighs 50lbs . and was slightly higher than waist . when ee picked disk up it shifted to right placing most of the weight on the rt . arm causing the rt . forearm to be injured .
strained himself while lifting rockdust .
after baling cardboard , temp ee attempted to release bale from baler . unable to release the heavy load , she got help from a forklift operator . the forklift operator had the bale half up and ou t of the baler , when the temp ee moved from her spot of safety , attempted to assist the forklift operator by pulling down the baler release handle , and the handle hit the side of her head as
north 6 , 13 block 7 entry , mmu 004 , 4 way 18ft . wide 18ft . long x 8 ft. high . support 6ft . 3/4 inch resin bolts , 12ft . cable bolts , pans , brow straps , truss bolts , fall dangered off additional roof support installed around fall .
while walking along the operators side of the roof bolter , ee claims to have stepped on a small rock laying along the rib , as he stepped on the rock ee lost his footing and fell to the mine floor .
ee was sandblasting up underneath truck trailer boy , lost control of sandblast hose , sandblasted his right wrist .
while gathering belt tools to make a splice on the # 1 belt at the old marsh fork portal , employee was walking bent over because it is low when he caught his ear on the bottom of a cable bolt resulting in a cut to his left ear . employee was treated at med express in beckley where he received thirteen ( 13 ) sutures .
ee was running shuttle car inby panel 028-2 , ran over rock on hit hole in the tramway causing him to hit head on cab of shuttle car .
ee was leaving control room at end of shift with large bag of trash and personal items in his hands . while descending steps , his foot rolled forward losing his balance and falling to the midway landing . initial dr. visit on 1-31-07. no restrictions given . restricted duty at follow-up visit on 2-16-07. misc mail 10/9/07 # 15-9/11/07 with restrict days 87 .
ee was getting out of loader when he slipped and fell to the ground , fall around 5'8 '' .
employee was performing his duties by listening to and checking machine while in operation when he lost his balance . he attempted to catch himself with entry door of shovel . thumb was caught i n door and as a result he suffered a fracture tohis right thumb .
ee was operating the miner when a rib rolled striking his left leg causing a fracture . ee also suffered a fracture to the face .
employee went to jumped off linkbelt 460 excavator and slipped on the end of the track . employee fell on the track with his lower back injuring it .
employee was drilling a hole in the mine roof to install a roof bolt when a piece of rock measuring approx 1 ' l x 18 ' w x 1 1/2 '' t fell from the mine roof striking him on the left foot .
individual was placing a bag in the sewing machine when the middle finger of his left hand got caught between the intake chains , pinching his finger . the individual sustained a subungal hemoto ma and blood was drained from under the finger nail .
employee states that while he was bending over to pick-up the miner cable to move it out of the roadway , the rib rolled off and struck him on the ( r ) leg and knocked him to the ground .
victim contacted raceway enclosure with wrist and received electrical burns where his wrist watch was . victim received medical treatment where 2nd and 3rd drgree burns were determined . victim sent home for remainder of shift . ground continuity checks done 2 days prior . however , loose conection found in raceway .
the ee was struck on the head by a small rock which caused a laceration . his hard hat had fallenoff as he looked up . the laceration was closed by derma bond .
the injured ee was dragging a 2 '' water hose used to wash down the mill yard area . as he was dragging the hose across the yard it caught underneath the wheel of a parked forklift , stopping his momentum and causing him to jerk back , resulting in a strain to his lt. bicep .
moving hyd pump into position in d9l hurt bottomright side back . it was dry and sunny .
employee stated that he slipped on mine floor . upon the mri showed degenerative nature of knee and several tears . employee had surgery on 1/10/2011 which was his first lost work day .
ee was using a 4 ' pipe wrench , in the drill doctor shop , to loosen up a part on a jack-leg drill leg . when ee put pressure to the wrench , the wrench slipped causing ee to lose his balance forward and when he took a step to catch himself , he twisted his left ankle .
ee was standing-loading a roof bolter when a scoop began to roll . it pinned his left leg against a bundle of roof bolts .
ee was working removing shell liners from raw mill ( ball mill ) . the process required striking the liner with a hammer to loosed to remove . a piece of shrapnel struck ee in the right shoulder embedding under the skin .
a fire was observed behind the cab of the bulk emullsion truck . the truck was fully involved within minutes . the blast pattern was evacuated and approximately 70 minutes after the fire started an explosion occurred . the bulk emullsion truck was a total loss .
ee was using a 10 pound hammer to unplug a chutewhen he felt pain in his shoulder . he saw a doctor on 2-25-03 , was examined and xrayeda and released to work . he seen another doctor on 3-3-03 which gave hi cortisone injections to his shoulder thereby making this reportable .
down on knees doing clean-up , stood upright kneepopped . after going home knee began to hurt . went to hospital , treated & released . went to doctor 10/31/01 who restricted from work until schedu led mri . ee was released for work 10/15 through 10/31 . worked 10/24 through 10/26 .
ee was using wrench when he claims wrench slipped causing him to strain his shoulder . he was placed on modified duty on 7-22-04 .
while working at the face , employee told co-worker that he felt `` something pull '' . he finished shift and told foreman that he had some groin pain . on way home , he stopped at hospital was examin ed and infromed he had a hernia . after taking with employee it was apparent that hernia resulted from prior pull at snother mine . pulled area finally failed while working a spruce no . 2 mine .
the ee was cutting off stainless steel bolts that hold on pleates in the underside of a clinker cooler . while cutting off the bolts with a torch , clinker dust got in the ee's eyes . the ee was wearing a welding hood at the time . the ee had to have his eyes flushed to remove the clinker dust .
ee was walking down an inclined walkway . he stepped on a slippery spot , lost his balance , fell backward and landed on his right shoulder . plant physician placed ee on restricted duty and prescribed pt 3x/week .
injured picked up a 6 '' water line and raised it above his head to hang on chains . he felt pain in his stomache and back .
emp walked into path of moving forklift and was knocked down resulting in arm being injured by what x-rays showed as a crushing type injury ( severe contustions/bruising ) .
ee was putting up sails to channels during belt move , when he went to put up sails he was bent over & pulled on sails towards channels & strained his back .
ee had been experiencing pain in both wrists for 3 to 4 months . pain has been getting worse . also numbness and tingling in hands . note : ee began missing work 9/16/00 to have surgery .
ee was loading heintzman jack on the scoop and dropped the jack on his ring finger of his left hand . he was transported to boone memorial where he received stitches .
ee was using utility knife to open a box . he let knife slip , contacted his left hand , causing injury . he was taken to er for treatment , stitches were used to close the wound .
employee was walking away from his work area . he walked under an inclined conveyer . he walked too close to the conveyer and as he passed under the conveyer , his hard hat struck the conveyer fr ame . this caused his head and neck to be compressed . bruised neck .
employee was working on # 3 cooler ( installing chain on bedgrate dr ) , when his left hand was caught in the sprocket , causing a compound fracture of the middle finger on his left hand .
north mains 51 block , 8 heading 4-way intersection . 7'high x 18'wide x 18'long . type of support - 6 ' resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats . area dangered off & additional roof support set ar ound fall .
at appx . 3:30 pm , an unplanned release of methane gas occurred in the no . 6 entry of panel 2a , inby survey station # 1156 , of the northeast seb-mains of the above reference mine . a contributing factor to the release was a drop in barometric pressure .
ee was removing a peice of decking , as he attempted to pry the decking loose from a 3 inch waterpipe a piece of expanded metal fell and struck the ee on shoulders and neck .
stated : employee was walking between road grader and rib to access cab of grader . waterline was hung at 5 ' off mine floor at this location . employee hit head on waterline coupling , slipped and rolled her ankle . later diagnosed with fracture .
ee was removing rock from a power line while making a power move and cut his left small and ring fingers .
injured was walking back from 4e section power car after putting power back on the section auxiliary fan and attempted to step over some ventilation tubes . ee tripped and fell , landing on right elbow . ee continued to work until 7/1/17 , when ee went off work pending surgery to repair a torn tricep tendon in right elbow .
while descending a fixed ladder on the side of an open top haul trailer , the ee snagged his ring on his right hand on a molded ridge on the last ladder rung which caused the ring to cut into t he finger and tear tissue between the second and third knuckle .
ee was using portapower to move a drive plate ondryer . portapower slipped & hit his palm , straining his left shoulder
white attaching railcar to motor , ee was moving coupler with his right hand . while making this pulling motion with his right arm he felt a pain going from his hand to just below his shouler on 8-31-01 he was examined by a physciain and was diagnosed with having carpel tunnel syndrome .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred at the mouth of the first left panel off first right submains .
on 05/14/2014 the ee bumped his knee and refused medical treatment . on 05/15/2014 it was determined to have a contusion . on 05/23/2014 the ee was evaluated and instructed to have an mri . on 06/20/2014 the employee was evaluated . only 07/03/2014 the employee was evaluated . on 08/11/2014 the employee brought documentation that he was to only work in a seated position
the ee was using an air lance to dislodge material sticking to the inside of the riser duct on the preheat tower . when some hot particles of kiln feed got into his left glove he jerked his arm backwars . his elbow hit a steel i-beam that he was standing next to . he reported the injury to his supervisor but did not want to see a doctor until 6/28/00 after the elbow began to swell and
using a knife to remove a board on belt roller . knife slipped and went thur glove , cutting the left little finger .
the employee was lifting a glue box when he felt pain/burning and heard popping sounds in his left hand/wrist . the accident was not deemed reportable , however , until the ee began taking off work due to complications from the injury beginning on sept. 19,2007
coil that pulls in the safety circuit reset cellunoid failed . replacement was available and required 10 minutes to correct once an electrician was called to site .
ee was dismounting from a caterpillar 990 loader . he slipped and struck his elbow on the loader's steps .
the employee was clearing out a product collector when he stood on a pipe then lost his balance . in an effort to regain his footing and catch himself on a forklift below , he aggravated his lower abdominal region . the doctor diagnosised the injury as a muscle strain in the lower abdominal area .
ee was cuting a peace of wire with a hammer to tie miner cable up when he hit his right hand between thumb and first finger causing a cut .
a roof fall above the anchorage occurred in the north6/west12 intersection . there were no injuries resulting from this fall . this area was inactive since 4/10/2015 . the fall was approximately 40 ' wide by 40 ' long and 8 feet high . the fall area has been bermed off from travel .
employee slipped on ice and fell on his knee . he was taken to the er and released to work . on 12/21/15 , employee notified supervisor his knee continued to hurt . he was taken to an orthopedic specialist and taken off work pending the results of an mri . currently ongoing .
1st break outby face # 4 # 2 section he was waiting for scoop to clean up rock . ee was standing beside of roof bolting machine when the rib rolled off . hurting lower right leg .
employee was helping explosive truck driver transfer the anfo from truck to the explosives cars for shipping underground . after lifting a bag of anfo employee felt `` tug '' in his back . emp . is scheduled for four day week , was seen on oct 28th and told to rest during 3-days off . came back and saw doctor on november 1st , was put on restricted duty .
operating headgate drum on shearer going towards tailgate as shield 50 hit rock spar in floor a piece of rock 1 foot square bounced off shearer & landed on his right foot while he was standing between shields operating the shearer by remote control .
the ee was driving a spade into the rib to hang a cable , when he struck his thumb with a hammer . the ee suffered a broken thumb .
employee was reaching for an impact gun when a rock fell from an unknown location and struck a pry bar that was thrown into ee's left bicept .
ee was helping to install guards on lower feeder # 520008 , when metal shovings came down and went into his right eye . ee was wearing safety glasses at the time of accident .
employee was using a piece of wire to unplug anfo from auger . the wire apparently caught in the moving auger and pulled the end of his finger off .
on the afternoon shift the shearer was cutting into the tailgate when an outburst occurred filling the panline full of coal and rock from shield 103 to 116 causing the panline to stall . the ou tburst did not cause any damage .
throwing bundle of bags down chute . bundle caught on his left sleeve , jerking ee to the left .
employee was placing a crossmember into pit feeder . crossmember fell and injured left index finger , requiring 3 stitches .
emp was sitting in a safety meeting and turned to his right to pass a paper to the person beside him and felt a pain in his lower back . when he went to stand up after the meeting was over the pain increased . went to company doctor . rcvd restrictions , pt , and prescription .
he was tightening up bolts on front of ride , when he hurt his sholder and pulled muscles in back . *started missing 03/29/06*
ee was chipping slag from a hot weld when a piece of slag caused a corneal abrasion . he was examined at an urgent care facility immediately following the injury . no foreign body was embedded . antibacterial eye drops are prescribed and administered . he was examined by the co dr the following morning . no additional treatment was performed and he was released from care of mmi . he was
the employee was climbing down off a blade , when he slipped on mud on the step . he tried to catch himself on a handrail and stetched and strained his left shoulder . the pain persisted and on 10/20/08 he went for surgery on his shoulder and missed his first shift on that day .
mechanic went home after shift and woke up with a sore right shoulder . employee came to work the next day and reported injury . the day before the mechanic was using a 3 pound hammer to pound a wedge in mccawber dome valve to loosen seal . supv called plant nurse to talk to mechanic employee is following up with doctor today
while being loaded by the 992g loader the bucketcame down on the box of the cat 773b haul truck.this jarred the driver causing him to hit his head on the air conditioner unit . he received a la ceration that needed 10 staples to close . he waswearing a seat belt .
during an msha site inspection , msha inspector climbed up onto mobile equipment hauler to talk to operator . operator opened his driver's side door to talk to the inspector . after the conversation was complete , the inspector inadvertently shut the door on the operator's left hand , injuring his left index and middle fingers .
using cutting torch to wreck out old hopper ; included use of face shield and safety glasses ; employee lifted face shield when not using cutting torch , pieces of cement/metal particles sitting on head suspension of face shield fell off of small groove on top of head suspension and down through and behind safety glasses . eye irritaion from particles falling into eye area .
ee was operating a valve that had a defective handle with jagged edges . the jagged edges cause a laceration on ee's hand which required sutures to repair . no lost work days or restricted duty .
55 gal . drums of lube to proper staging locationand using a barrel dolley , the barrel dolley clip that holds the barrel lip slipped off causing the barrel to fall back to the upright position . the employee's hand was around another barrel and was pinned between the two barrels . resulted in a laceration and broken bone to the tip of the middle finger on the hand .
an unplanned roof fall had occurred from spad # 47168 for two cross cuts in the northern direction . this area is in the return aircourse and does not affect the ventilation to the working section . it also does not impede the weekly exam . this location is in an area in which no employees are currently working .
ee observed a co-worker having trouble . he quickly exited the dozer and slipped on the track and struck his right knee .
employee was unlatching the block , operator from fmi lifted the boom and the chock block that was being used as a buffer between the boon and the cradle fell aprox . 6ft . hitting employee on top of his hard hat . employee was dazed at first and then upper extremities became sore .
ee was cutting conveyer belt , knife slipped lacerating his right thigh .
ee stated he felt strain in right shoulder whileperforming mechanic work on d-6 dozer . he did not miss any time until 1/22/01 . this report has been delayed waiting on diagnosis from dr. see attachment
ee had just finished repairing a loading machine . cable when a shuttle going outby caught the loading machine cable that was hung along the roadway causing the cable to tighten up , catching th e ee between the cable and the loading machine .
while slag dropped and lodged on the outer tongue of boot which burnt a hole causing penetration of the slag inside . this caused a combustion reaction inside the boots which charred sock and b oot then caused skin damage .
ee didn't start missing time until 9-6-2011 and is scheduled for pre-op appointment on 9-12-2011 for surgery
ee was helping put a flat car back on the track.he was pushing down on a jack bar when the jack slipped . he fell forward and stepped on a cribb block causing the injury .
ee was laying track using a bar to flip track over . his foot slipped & bar struck his nose near the left eye , requiring three stitches .
the employee was using a two-handed sledgehammer to move material in a feeder by striking the sides of the feeder . as the employee swung the sledgehammer over his head , he felt a `` pop '' in his left shoulder and released the sledgehammer , which then struck the same shoulder ( left ) . the employee has scheduled an mri to determine the extent of the damage ( an x-ray revealed no damage ) .
miner stepped over pipeline and twisted/turned ankle ( right ) . pipeline rests on ground which waswet , sandy and somewhat unlevel .
ee was using his pocket knife to loosen a screw when the blade broke and but his finger . the blade was closed at the time it brake .
ee was hammering concrete off steel beam with small welding hammer . ee was standing , straddling metal piece , & swinging hammer with rt . hand . hammer struck ee's lower inner l. ankle . taken to dr. who found no broken bones . impacted nerve with swelling & bruising . no lost time but on restr . duty until 3/7/05 re-evaluation . 10/11/05 : no restr . duties & rx - pain med . only .
ee observed a metal roof strap wedged in coal at the section feeder and he attempted to remove metal strap by hand . ee sustained a laceration and received 6 sutures in his middle finger on right hand . ee was not wearing gloves . ee rtw on 7/9/2014 .
a roof fall was discovered in return entry of # 7 on 10-27-05 at 11:00 am the fall measured app 30 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' high . no personal injuries or machinery was involved . prelimary investigation revailed that the fall was above the anchoraye point .
on 1/24/08 at apprx.408am , hoist at dotiki iv experinced a malfuction with a field current regulator . msha was notified at approx . 419am
employee was cleaning out around a slusher when a rock came down from high on the rib wall and struck him on the left shoulder . the rock caused a slight fracture of his shoulder blade .
ee diagnosed with carpal tunnel - 5-7-02 .
was removing a nitrogen cylinder for the eljay crusher . oil under pressure burst from the cylinder into his eye . eye protection was being worn at the time .
he was performing his regular duties as a mechanic using a chain fall when he felt pain in his right shoulder . he continued to work at his regular duties until april 11 , 2011 when he was removed from work for shoulder surgery . his mri indicates tendonopothy & degenerative changes . this & his 35 years of mining experience support occupational illness . mri report included .
latches on breaker door were not turned all the way . when breaker was reset the breaker blew up . door blew open burning his face , neck hands and 6-8 inches on arms . 480 v breaker .
ee was splitting stone with a chisel and 6 lbs hammer . as he swung his hammer toward his chisel , the stone unexpectantly separated causing him to pinch his right index finger between the stone and his hammer handle .
employee was stepping down out of euclid haul truck and fell to ground . does not know if he slipped or missed step - not sure what happened . employee dislocated right shoulder and cracked pelv ic bone .
ee was operating the loader and hit a pothole causing back to hurt . ee declined medical attention at first but asked to go to the doctor on 9/19/17 .
employee was pulling himself up onto trackhoe to operate .
an engine compartment fire resulted from a mechanical failure on 526-518 kress coal hauler driveline .
the longwall face was mining through # 15 crosscut . between night shift and day shift the crosscut fell in .
unplanned roof fall on the oo2 unit # 24 belt outby spad # 13145 and inby spad # 13400 fall is approx 46 ' long and 19'5 '' wide and 6 ' to 8 ' high
while descending the moving stairs of the stacker reclaimer , a hidden rock moved forward , ee stepped on it , twisted his ankle and fell .
employee was dismounting a railcar and when his left foot touched the ground he felt a `` pop '' in his left knee resulting in pain .
ee was loosening the bolt & while trying to break it loose the wrench gave when the bolt loosened abruptly . his hand slipped & struck the nearbyhand rail & smashed his right thumb a little but put a cut on it as well
employees had removed the wash screw at the siding & had completed the reinstallation of the conveyor . a co-worker was moving the backhoe out of the way , while ee was standing under the wash s creen , when a rock that was wedged in the tracks of the backhoe popped loose & struck ee under his left eye beneath his safety glasses .
received a hearing loss diagnosis for employee . ee was termed on 9/25/15 .
the ee was hanging miner cable on the high voltage hanger . the miner cable swung back and one of the smaller hooks , on the hanger , hooked him in the nose and it ripped out when the hanger swung back . ***msha reportable***
roof fall occurred in the east sub panel at spad # 8 & 50 in the # 6 room ... .40 ' long & 19 ' wide x 5 ft high ... no equipment or ventilation affected .
ee was fliping over a rock int he walkway of the track on # 2 section , he slipped on a small loose rock and fell across the track , landing on his right shoulder and lower back .
ee was installing a return roller on a conveyor belt and pinched his thumb between the roller and belt .
a roof fall in the main east entrys # 13 x-cut # 3 entry measuring 60 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . the area was mined in may 2000 & supported with 6 ' rebar bolts .
ee did not report his accident until 2/12/01 . heinformed site supervisor that he hurt his back . no further information available at this time .
pt was working a hard to turn valve and pulled herself inot a pipe railing , striking it with her left lower chest . she felt a pop and c/o pain left lower chest radiating to the left posterior chest .
while chaning a shuttle car tire , the tire fell on ee left foot .
located at 104 blk , main north : 2 ee's were taking an air reading with a smoke tube ( @ main east seals ) . the smoke tube shattered while inserting it into an aspirator bulb , causing a puncture/laceration to his left 5th finger , that required surgery to repair the flexor tendon . began missing 8/28/06 . surgery on 8/29 .
replacing thermocouple on the thermal dryer , but the hole was too small . he used a 1 '' pipe and 3 lb . hammer to widen opening . he missed the pipe and struck his gloved left hand with the hammer , opening a wound in the soft tissue between the thumb and index finger . required 7 sutures . no problems with training , ppe , mining methods or compliance issues .
mechanic cut fingertip using razor blade . while first aid was being given he passed out due to the sight of his own blood and struck his head as he collapsed . was revived and transported to local clinic . they couldn't treat him and he was flown to umc trauma in las vegas . cat scan was performed and read in las vegas . he was then released to return to work at 2:15 pm that day .
ee was grinding on steel beams with safety glass on , when a chip of steel came from behind . note=ee was wearing safety glasses .
employee said the seat bruised his back . i was not informed of this when the cituation occurred .
ee was putting on boots in the parking lot at job site when he felt pain in his back .
the operator missed bottom step on 2012 kawasaki loader . ee fell and hit elbow on step & needed 2 stitches .
ee was operating a shuttle car when he attempted to avoid the line curtain on the off side . he got too close to the rib/brow on his side and came in contact with the rib .
a roof fall measuring 50 ' x 18 ' x 8 ' to 10 ' thick occurred in the last open crosscut of # 5 entry . the area was roof bolted with 3/4 '' dia . x 6 ' and 8 ' long tensioned rebar bolts . a roof bolter cable and continuous miner cable were under the roof fall .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee on 3/5/2014 .
employee was diagnosed with cwp .
a roof fall occurred in the main east main at x-cut # 150 at spad station # 106 + 13 in the # 1 entry . 35 ft. long x 18 ft. wide x 6 ft. high . no equipment involved or ventilation affected .
while walking behind a belt takeup the miner stepped in a hole and strained or jammed his back .
the ee was replacing poly screens . he was attempting to remove some of the pins . he swung the hammer , hit a piece of angle iron , the hammer bounced over and hit his left index finger causing a fracture . the ee's finger was bandaged with a splint , but is still able to perform his normal job ( control room operator ) with no restrictions .
employee was attempting to tram the # 753 tub out of the track spur when the tub derailed . ee jacked the tub up until it was above the ball of the track rail . when ee got it high enough ee was going to attempt to shove it off of the jack to make it land back on the rail . in the process of shoving the tub over it landed the wrong way and landed on the employee's foot .
employee was helping remove leg jack from headgate area and was struck on top of left foot by a piece of coal from the rib .
ee was operating a front-end loader in the pit area , when he drove over a wind row made by the dozer , which jarred his back and strained it . injury was not reported to supervisor until 10/14/ 02. ee went to the occ . health center & they put him on restricted duty as of 10/14 .
ee alleges after grinding operation , he took his sleeve on his jacket and wiped his eyebrow and he felt something in his eye .
stacker conveyor stalled and employee exited loader to shut off power . in doin so he twisted and felt lower back pop .
a failure in the hanging wall at 32w 3700 occurred between 6/21/04 dayshift & 6/22/04 dayshift that appears to meet msha's reporting criteria . no one working in the area on night shift . the heading has been open for appx . 10 months & was cable bolted about 2 months after initial excavation . the failed section measured approximately 10 ' h x 6 ' d x 20 ' l .
6 north - 3a - longwall face , shear intersected uncharted skid hole near cutoff charted plugged gas well . skid hole located at # 105 shield .
employee was operating a continuous miner and while standing stationary he had to turn and twist his body to see the approaching ram cars . he felt pain in his right knee . he had right knee arthroscopy and partial medial meniscectomy on may 13 , 2014 .
employee got off the mantrip in the outby travel way at # 2 belt drive , took a step and felt right knee give out followed by pain and tightness .
employee placed left hand between bottom and mid shell of crusher to adjust gasket while mid shell was being lowered by crane onto bottom shell . employee's left hand was crushed . ( post-surgical eval . : probably will require amputation of middle , ring & little fingers , each at proximal phalange . )
employee was diagnosed with anterolateral spondylosis . documentation is attached .
ee states that as he was tramming a rail ride through the air lock doors , one of them started closing on him . the rail ride caught one of the doors causing a cinder block to be displaced and fall . the block struck his hand causing an laceration .
ee was lowering a pump cable and his finger got caught on the hanger and it cut his finger .
ee was using a splitting mal to break wood apartto fit into wood heating stove . he pulled a muscle while swining the mal .
a fall of supported roof occurred in no . 4 entry between crosscut # 7 and 8 on south mains , parallel entries on 001 section . the fall measured 18 ' wide by 70 ' l by app 6 ' high . no injuries resulted from the fall .
employee was walking off the face when ee stepped in a hole between shield # 2 and # 3 causing ee to fall spraining ee's ankle .
roof fall in the south mains # 6 entry . at 47 x cut intersection and in by . fall is 40 ft long , 17 ft wide and 12 ft high . roof material consisted of layered shale with a longitudinal slip . are a was mined 11-99 with a continuous miner and supported with 7 ft point anchor roof bolts .
ee was handling metal and hand came into contact with raw edge that punctured his hand .
employee was assisting two other employees in removing a pump from the spanish needle creek . thepump sits in a concrete enclosure and required the use of a crane to remove the pump.the employe e put his hand on the hoist rope as the pump waslifted , causing his fingers to be pinched between the sheave wheel and the rope .
while b-bonding a stopping in the bleeder entry of 24w sweat ran down into his eye , possibly bringing b-bond powder with it . received a scratch to his cornea that was treated with prescription eye drops . missed no work . no problems with training , ppe , mining methods or compliance issues .
2 employees were using a sander-grinder on metal strip down side of trailer truck bed prepairing to repaint it . some time during the afternoon of the 12th injured got a piece of metal on his eye ball . he has had pink eye & his eyes were still sore adn he didn't realize he had anything in his eye until around noon on 4/13 . he had on his safety glasses and a face shield .
working on hammer mill , hammer started to spin , holding on to it to prevent co-worker from getting injured , pinched left thumb . cut l thumb in 2 places
ee was using a sledge hammer to break up a piece of kiln ash . when the hammer face contacted with the piece of ash , the ee felt something pop in his left wrist and felt pain .
ee was pulling up a 2 '' wash out hose to the elevated decking in order to wash down material .
employee was driving a lowboy down the haul road and experienced pain in his lower back and upper buttock . he was taken to the center for occupational health on 6-5-01 and diagnosed with a str ain to the lower back . he is to have physical therapy 2-3 times a week . he was released to come back to work with restricted duty and is scheduled for follow up on 6-20-01 .
ee was walking in the belt entry when he raised up striking his left ear against a belt hanger , causing a laceration .
employee was working in # 5 finish mill removing head liners . four ( 4 ) liners are removed at a time . employee had placed a liner at an angle to the side of the mill . while moving another liner , the one he previously positioned slid down striking him in the rt ankle .
he stepped on snow covered steel , slipped and fell , twisting his left knee . he continued to work performing his normal work until he had orthoscopic surgery on 2-22-01 .
employee , an sos contract employee working at simplot phosphates , was raising the feed pipe . she put her left hand on the block of the crane to steady it . as the crane block was coming up through the chute it pinched employee's left ring finger between the feed chute and the crane block .
the ee was walking to his work area when he stepped in a hole , when he slipped he twisted his back .
climbing down ladder of haul trk , very icy , lostgrip & fell 5ft to platform , struck his chest against railing
employee lifting 94 lb . bags of cement onto pal-let ; he incurred a strain in back area , causing pain when standing or sitting for long periods of time .
while traming a scoop , the scoop hit a hole in the roadway and threw the scoop operator into the canopy of the scoop .
ee was moving bolts to the side to gain access to the oil fill lid . the bolter operator was tramming the bolter machine and did not see ee . the machine ran over his foot ( left ) .
roof fall : length 60 ' x width 20 ' x ht 6 ' .
ee was cleaning under a dryer with an air chisle . the hose on another ee air chisle came off and blew some material under his co-workers safety glasses and into his right eye . the optomologist has to remove a particle from ee's eye and he was given a prescription medication .
ee advised supervisor on 4/24/00 that as a result of tripping on a rock 3 wks ago he sustained a tear type injury to right knee
ee was plastering brattice when he went to stand up he felt pain in his leg .
while mining a current hole , the coal quality turned bad and auger engine sped up . to determine if they had possibly intersected the previous hole or gotten inot the roof or floor , they had to open the previous hole to see and listen . this hole had been corked by a bulldozer while cleaning up . when opened , accumulated gas ignited on the auger's inert gas burner & burned < 60 sec .
making splice on 3east belt , miner was just inby drive trying to remove a stuck splice pin . ee put the claw of a hammer against the head of the pin and struck it with another hammer . sliver of metal came off one hammer and punctured left forearm . no problems with training , ppe , mining methods or compliance issues .
injured was assisting miner operator , when a piece of draw rock fell fromt he roof striking him on his right leg . this resulted in a fracture to his right ankle .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 6 right section , one break inby spad # 22344 in the # 2 entry . the approximate dimensions of the rock fall area are 10+ ft x 30ft x 50ft .
at approx . 12:20 pm the camp run elevator was reported to be out of service . maintenance employees were notified and began troubleshooting the problem with the assistance of schindler elevator service via telephone . the elevator was experiencing a switch fault . the fault was cleared and elevator examined and tested and put back in service at approx . 1:20 pm .
on feb 23,2006 general inside laborer injured his l ankel while working as a section utility person on the mmu 002 working section . he was walking through the last open crosscut when a shuttle car cable drug across the entry striking him on the l foot causing a sprain to his ankle .
started on the dozer but moved to the blade for a specific project . when done , as ee was getting off right knee buckled . shortly after it started swelling , so ee sought medical attention from safety .
on nov. 1 , 2001 , employee reported he had a soreleft shoulder and may have torn muscles . his in-jury occurred on oct. 17 , 2001 , but was not re- ported at that time . he saw a specialist on 11/7 2001 and was diagnosed with left shoulder pain/ rotator cuff tear . he was placed on light work .
employee was attempting to push in a skirt rubber that had popped out . ee used a pry bar to push the rubber back in place and inadvertently made contact with the moving conveyor belt causing the bar to spin and pinch their finger between the bar and the chute . a few stitches received to tip of right middle finger .
ee pinched right hand fingers in bag loader saddle while inspecting roller bearings on bag loading conveyor .
employee bent over to pick up a 50 lb bag of siderite and hurt his lower back .
we experienced a rock burst in the 168 stope on 4600 level which shattered rock on the footwall rib approximately 2 ' to 4 ' deep for a distance of about 16 ' in length . rock also appeared to have been pushed up from the sill creating a muckpile approximately 3 ' to 4'high . there was no apparent damage to the back except some surface cracking of the cemented backfill . no crew present .
fall app . 0 '' to 12 ' high - 18 ' wide - 18 ' long -no injuries , no equipment involved - no blockageof air or escapeway - will not be cleaned up - breakered off & dangered .
employee was standing on a flat bed truck loading 50 lb bags of lime into a hopper and strained right groin .
ee was cleaning loader wheel when his finger hita sharp piece of metal . he cut his right middle finger requiring sutures
stairs , ee was coming down stairs , right ankle twisted and caused a sprain
contract employee ( contractor id # 5uf ) was riding the mantrip when it hit hole , jarring his lower back .
a roof fall measuring 70 ' ( l ) x 18 ' ( w ) x 6 ' ( t ) was discovered 80 ' inby spad # 1293. this fall was discovered @ 10:20am .
ee was cleaning rock from the deck on the shuttle car level at the secondary crusher when another ee working on the deck above him kicked a buildup of ice/mud from the conveyor . the ice chunk fell to the shuttle car level and struck ee working there . the ee was examined by authorized provider & released to full duty . he was seen on 11/25/02 & massage therapy was administered .
ee was lifting blokcs , turned end threw block onto conveyor belt . ee started missing work 4/11/05 due to surgery
employee was loading full oil cans in the scoop bucket when ee felt a pop in left hand/elbow/forearm . employee finished shift and then went to the hospital where they reported ee may have some ligament damage so they suggested ee wore support . employee received a full release and returned back to work the next day .
ee was securing an oxygen bottle back up that had fallen over . as he turned to get a chain to secure it , the bottle fell over hitting his leg against the edge of a scoop bucket .
ee was walking up # 6 entry and slipped in a hole and felt pain in right knee .
while holding plate with air bellows on it as another ee was center punching holes , the plate bounced and the bellows pinched the ee's finger .
employee was a passenger in a brookville mantrip . when the operator attempted to stop he suddenly realized he had no brakes causing the mantrip to roll backwards 1350 ' striking another mantrip at the end of the track .
employee was in # 1 magaldi working when a mixture of water and hot clinker got in his boot which caused a chemical burn to the right foot .
while swinging a sledge hammer , the ee missed the flange on a beam . the momentum carried his hand into a handrailing .
carpal tunnel syndrome diagnesed on 2/4/03 . no work missed till 4/30/03 for surgery .
1 block in by spad 121 on intake no . 6 entry 3 way intersection . 10 ft wide 25 ft long , 7 ft high .
ee felt pain in right shoulder while traveling mortar product overhead in a newly constructed cyclone plenum . ee didn't seek medical treatment believing it was just a sore shoulder . ee returned to wear con facility on 5/8/17 where ee sought medical attention and was diagnosed with a right shoulder muscle and tendon strain of the rotator cuff and place on restrictive duty .
we had a roof fall in an area of the mine that had been cribbed and dangered off for about 3 weeks , 20 ft in by spad # 5125 or 7 brk out by face in the # 3 neutral entry . the fall was approx 18 ' wide by 70 ' long and 10-14 ' high . the fall did not block intake or return airways , belt entry or neutral travelway . fall will not be cleaned up .
a non-injury roof fall occured in the # 2 entry of 12 west at crosscut 25. the fall measured 8 ' to 9 ' high , 35 feet long and 18 to 20 feet wide .
injured employee and two co-workers were removing old cartridges after rebagging a bag house . injured ee was struck in the mouth with a cartridge and the impace knocked 4 teeth loose . note : it was not determined that the incident was a recordable injury until july 14 , 2004 .
cut on hand from # 007 hitachi shovel hand rail . no impairment at the time of incident . infection occurred later .
ee slipped and fell while getting out of his pick-up to re-fuel . he landed on his left hand and sprained his wrist .
ee was attempting to lift a belt guard and felt pain in his left shoulder .
while ee was in his shuttle car , a rock came off rig and hit his leg . the cut required stiches . he returned to work later the same day .
ee was leaning over the undercarriage attempting to grab his lifting chain while installing the belly pans . ee was leaning directly over the lifting eye . he grabbed the his chain and was backing out away from the undercarriage when the lifting eye caused a contusion to his left chest area .
a fall occurred in the old works 35 ' in by spad # 2429 to 50 ' out by spad # 2467. fall was approx 4-6 ' high and approx 16 ' wide , for the distance listed above . cover approx 300-350 ' . fall will not be cleaned up , it will be posted and dangered off .
audimetric records indicate an industrial hearing loss .
injured was interupted by another person , he stepped forward to ask what did he say when the tail jack was coming down he ahd put his right foot under the jack at that point , the steel toed sh oes savedhis toes from being crushed , injured had small fracture tip of big toe and stitches .
after he finished spraying the stopping , ee laid the spray gun on ground . the pump picked up what sealant was left in hopper and started spraying . the hose started fishtailing , spraying sealant into both eyes .
while lifting a section of ultra track bar , when diasassembly b-7 pan line , coworker dropped his end , catching injure lt. middle finger .
during an msha inspection of our emergency hoist , it was found that the hoist was not functioning properly . the hoist would not release the brake to lower the hoist into the intake shaft . the investigation revealed that the 90 vdc power supply had failed which powered the drum brake release circuit . the power supply was replaced and the hoist was returned to service .
ee was loading supplies on bolter . bolter operator backed over his foot . ( ee stated operator asked if he was clear and he thought he was . )
piece of rock projected from miner tail , striking ee on right side of head . required four sutures .
the injured was helping change out a 2 '' water line on 1 east mains belt at break # 32 , when he squatted down to take the bolts out of the victolic coupling he struck his left knee against a bottom belt drop down hanger , resulting in a laceration requiring 5 sutures .
employee was going into the parts trailer , slipped and fell off the steps to the ground . initial medical result was broken upper fibula and strained ankle . he went to his family doctor on 11/1 and futher exams showed a broken right ankle with some misalignment of the pieces of bone . surgery to put screws in these pieces was done on 11/3 . first lost work day was on 11/1 .
ee was loading straps , plates & bolts on the bolting machine he operates when he started having back pain .
ee was pulling on a wrench to loosen a cartridge when the cartridge broke loose causing ee to hit elbow on the fender . ee was placed on restricted duty on 6/14/2017 .
employee was using a punch bar to clear a blockage at the discharge chute at our rms reversible belt . he was standing on a platform . when the material broke loose , his momentum caused him to lose his balance and fall from platform .
ee was removing anvils from crusher anvil ring with sledge hammer causing a piece of anvil to break off and hit victim in left knee giving him a laceration that took 3 stitches on inside and 3 stitches on outside .
employee stated that ee was stepping out of a shuttle car when ee slipped on the ground hyper-extending right leg resulting in a sprain/strain and lost work days .
ee states he was unloading timbers from scoop and pulled muscle in his back .
employee was assigned to # 2 clinker tunnel to assist with # 1818 drag clean out . he arrived at the head pulley area and took the fastvac hose . the hose then surged causing him to fall against the drag with the hose between his leg .
ee was on site to clean underground piping with a water jet via an open manhole . a hose reel guide was installed overtop of the open manhole to allow the hose to move freely . ee was standing on top of the hose reel guide when it moved him and the guide fell into the open manhole . ee caught himself on the sides of the manhole , causing contusions to both arms and left shoulder .
while operating loader , ee apparently jarred himself , causing pain to his lower back . he worked 6.5 hours the next day and went to williamson a.r.h . to have check-up .
ee was setting miner up to turn cross-cut , started cutter head , when the cutter head started to cut a piece of rock and coal struck ee's left foot .
6 people were entrapped on sugar run elevator from 12:58 to 3:10 am due to an electrical fault ( governor switch tripped ) . switch was reset , men were removed and fault was unable to be reproduced that day . later had to clean contacts on starting panel relay for motor fields . no issues with company rules , regulations , training or ppe .
ee trying to unchoke # 19 cement silo , banging on the side of the cone bottom . reached down to turn off the air to the silo and opened the wrong valve , which caused a pressurized silo to blow cement powder dust in both eyes . force knocked off glasses and hard hat from ee . prescription medication given to him for eyes in the hospital .
while ee was splitting stone , a piece from the wedge embedded itself into his right thigh .
employee waslining up back plate for primary crusher when the plate shifted . the edge of the plate knocked off his hard hat and caused a laceration to the left ear and a small laceration to hi s forehead .
ee was roof bolting when a piece of rock approx 4 '' x 4 '' fell on his left forearm .
employee was bolting roof and employee lowered t-bar and a pice of draw rock fell stricking employee on his back .
ee was attempting to shim a reach lock pin when his left middle finger was pinched between the clevis and the lock housing . the resulting laceration required stitches .
ee was making his checks on 2a belt . ee walked by a reducer that main personnel were working on & got some oil on his boot . when he started dirving the steps he slipped & fell on his tailbone he suffered a bruise on his tailbone
employee was walking on a concrete slab , when he accidently stepped off the side , which caused his foot to roll sideways and caused an ankle sprain .
one crosscut inby spad 1833 in the # 1 entry adjacent to # 5 head intersection fell 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . doesn't block travel way , timbered off contacted msha & state .
while preparing to off load a dumpster at trash yard employee slipped & fell on snow/ice in a non-designated travelway while attempting to chock vehicle . employee was seen by site medic complaining of low back pain & was referred to the er , x-rays were positive for a tail bone fracture & restrictions were issued .
the employee started feeling pain in his left arm and neck . after consulting a dr it was found he had a pinched nerve . he is unsure what he did to inflict this injury .
a roof fall occurred in the # 2 entry at 3b 5 north longwall at 93 xc , survey station 116+00 . approx 20 ' x 20 ' x 15 ' . investigated .
a cat d9l bulldozer ee had been operating ran over ee . the bulldozer ran over the edge of the refuse bank and came to rest at the bottom of the embankment . the victim was pronounce dead at the scene . the reason why the victim was outside the bulldozer when the accident occurred is under investigation .
ee attempting to secure set of steps to overcast while standing on them . the steps slid down overcast hurting ee's left arm .
emp was cutting w/band saw on 06/23/05 , eye felt irritated when emp got off bus after work . got progressively worse overnight , and emt found foreign body in eye on 06/24/05 when emp arrived at work . the metal sliver was removed with a needle by er physician when flushing failed to dislodge it .
north 1 53 block , # 2 heading , 4way intersection , mmu 003 8'high x 18'wide x 18'long . type of supports : 6'resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off . attitional roof supports set around fall .
ee was mucking out material on a decline . he activated the brakes and went onto the fender of the loader when the brakes caught completely . he was jarred when the mucker contacted the rib of t he decline . he was placed on restricted duty for muscle strain in his lower back .
it was rainy , wet and muddy . ee slipped and impact with ground casued back to lock up .
while climbing up on dozer , left foot slipped in between trac .
employee was putting oil in the front engine of hte backhoe . when he had finsihed , he raisedupa nd hti his head on the automatic fire extinguisher nozzle .
on nov 21 , 02 the employee was told he was going to be laid off on 11/22/02 . he then stated that he had injured his shoulder shoveling rock at the crusher on 10/31/02 and had not reported it previously .
ee was attempting to straighten a bent track pad on the cat 330b rock hammer . the pad was heeled and ee was pumping the hydraulic jack handle . the headof the jack sprang off striking his right hand .
while employee was decending down steps , while carrying water hose , hose caught at corner of railing pulling employee back enough to lose footing on stair treads . he fell onto right elbow on metal stair tread .
ee was loosening/tightening a fitting on a pneumatic conveying line ( flexable ) , when he experienced pain in his left shoulder . an mri revealed a torn rotator cuff , which will require surgery . note original accident report for backstrain 1-23-03 , this report was filed 2-18-03 after ee visited physician .
ee was drilling a hole for a bolt when draw slate fell landing on the rotating pot of the bolter causing the rock to hit him in the face .
a unintentional roof fall was found during the weekly exam . area was 40 ft long by 20 ft wide by 7 ft high . area had been bolted with 8 ft conventional bolts . there was no injury or property damage reported .
ee was getting out of water truck for lunch break and slipped on bottom step and twisted right knee , skinned up left knee and shin .
while repairing loader bucket , flat bar struckd employee's right hand .
based on info rec 'd from those present it appears that the ignition was caused when a spark fromthe electric arc cutting procedure on the tailgate drum bit lug ignited and unknown methane blee der near the coal base bottom area . msha notified investigation conducted .
received a hearing loss claim for ee . he was laid off due to mine closure on 8/29/14 .
ee was operating a s-car hauling coal . he ran in a hole in the miner floor which caused the seat back to hit him in the lower back . he worked until 7-33-02. he went to the dr. and began missin g work on 7-23-02. the report was filed late due to the reasons i have noted .
ee was sitting on the ground cleaning a gate . when he stood up his right knee popped out .
reported 1/31/07 . believed to have occurred shortly before 11/28/06 ( 1st clinic visit ) . ee hit head on beam under smooth rolls while walking thru pit area , thought to be a minor neck sprain . ee sought medical exam , xrays and mri , negative results . physical therapy prescribed thus constituting msha reportability . no restrictions noted . ( did several p/t visits ) .
miner had just finished cutting 5 right heading in 001 mains and was starting to back out when the employee went to the miner to check on the pump that was going down . a piece of rock had fall en on the miner . as the operator was backing theminer out , the rock slid off the miner striking the employee on the left foot which required 3 sutures .
a person welding above where he was working welding on the # 14 hammermill . a piece of slag fell going down the back of his shirt causing a 2nd degree burn on his lower back .
ee stated he had just completed installation of his roof bolt and moved the boom over to install the third roof bolt . before starting installation of the third roof bolt he stepped back towards the roof bolter to change the bit on the drill steel . while he was in the process of changing the drill bit two rocks fell from the mine roof and struck his right leg between ankle and knee .
employee was riding out of the slope in a diesel mantrip when the trip started to slid backwards down the slope . after several attempts to stop the trip , the driver turned towards the arches to stop the ride . the impact caused ee , who was sitting in the last seat behind the driver to have contact the back wall of the mantrip .
an unplanned roof fall occurred approx 10,000 ' from the active face , measuring 30 ' length x 20 ' width x 6 ' height . no injuries were reported and ventilation was not affected . passage of persons was affected . no equipment was involved . all entrances to fall have been breakered off and the area will not be rehabilitated .
a roof fall occurred in the e-29 lw section . the roof fall was located on the face and in the # 3 belt entry . the fall was approximately 3 ' in front of the # 2 & # 3 shield tips and extended outby in the beltline to just inby the crusher . the immediate roof consisted of a laminated shale type material . it fell approximately 7 ' above the anchorage of the 8 ' bolts used in the area .
ee was setting up to install channel iron . he was pulling on an extention cord when he felt a foreign object in his left eye . he received a corneal abrasion from the material . ee is not losing any time and is not on work restrictions .
the ground laborer was attempting to connect rope to the right hand side of the blade of the 10 rubbertire dozer . the rubbertire operator moved the rubbertire forward so the ground laborer could hook up the rope to the blade . he dropped the blade on to the ground , not aware that the blade was on the foot of the ground laborer .
replacing liners in mill , a roller section is used to transfer the liners from outside to inside . a liner rolled off the end of the roller section striking another liner . ee was bending down to pick up a bolt , the liners struck sending a sliver of metal above his safety glasses .
the hoist car went down at 1:40am and was put back in service at 2:15am . the `` e '' stop was in and needed pulled out .
employee was operating the tail locomotive while moving a power center . the power center derailed and caught a discharge line connected to an air pump . the pump was pulled into the operator's compartment striking the employee in the back . there was no lack of job skills , training , ppe , or equipment protective devices .
on february 27 , 2015 welder received welding flash burn to eyes . receive prescription strength ibuprofen , tylenol and antibiotic eye drops . received two days restricted duty and released to full duty on 3/2/2015 .
while spotting super posts at 7h headgate- ee and the foreman leaned their post on the rib beside another - the other one fell and hit employee on the left side of the face - laceration on left eye , 3 sutures .
college temp . employee was taking water line out of a doorway in an arch . as ee was handling materials , ee pinched hand between the water line and coal rib .
ee was re-setting a breaker . an electrical flash occurred causing burns to his upper chest , face , and left side of his head .
the ee was on his knees drilling hole into a teflon bucket liner and as he was getting up his left knee popped & he felt pain in it . he continued to work within his classification . on april 30 th , he was examined by dr. and scheduled for anmri on may 4th . on may 18th dr performed surgeryon his left knee & it went well . ee is currentlyrestricted to light duty ( desk ) for next 6 weeks .
ee was a passenger in a jeep that was stopped on the haulage . a 20 ton motor slid into the jeep causing the ee to injure neck and lower back . the ee continues to work however ee has started physical therapy on 5/09/2018 .
was walking to section from mantrip . he stepped over a wet area and slipped twisting his right knee .
emp reported that while working overtime in granulation plant she felt tightness and tenderness develop in her left knee . unknown cause . emp knee swollen with pain . iced and elevated and took ibuprofen but no relief . went to company doctor and received anti-inflammatory and restrictive duty .
7c track entry break 11 roof fall 6 ft high 30 ft long 18 ft wide . no injurys were reported as and result of this roof fall .
ee was driving co truck without permission . this truck had transmission problems and was stopped & out of service in our facility . supervisors & mechanics advised him not to drive it until they fixed it . he didn't care and used it causing a fire on the vehicle . when ee tried to combat the fire , steam affected his face producing irritation . the co has suspended the ee for 2 weeks .
he drills granite with a jackhammer and steel . he was setting up steel and setting jh down on steel and missed retainer . the jh slipped and steel bent and hit him on forehead .
the employee was in the process of roof bolting a heading . after finishing a row of bolts , he went to the rear of the roof boltering machine to get a piece of hog panel . he bent over to pick up the sheet of hog panel , and felt a pain in his back .
the # 6 elevator descended to the bottom landing , passengers departed , doors closed and elevator would not return to surface landing . a line starter had burned up . this conveyance is not part o f the mine escapeway .
ee was driving a terex 3066 c articulated rear dump truck down a steep gravel haul road into a turn . the equipment's rear tandem tires began to `` buck jump '' . ee applied brakes . truck slid sideways and turned over on right side . ee caught arm in steering wheel and broke right humerus .
ee was on the ground flagging a load of patio stone and nearby was a track hoe . she turned to walk towards the loading area when , at the exact same time , the operator of the track hoe starting walking the hoe . the hammer on the boom of the track hoe knocked her several feet before hitting the ground .
a roof fall was discovered in the 5th northwest submain xc-18 , # 3 entry , at spad # 14+40 in the # 9 seam . the approximate size of the fall was length-40ft , width-20ft and height-6ft plus .
this mechanic was repairing a mantle for a cone crusher a pad eye was welded to the mantle & a t3 ton chain comealong was attached & pressure applied to loosed the 5g nut holding the mantle together . the weld on the pad eye broke the comealong which the mechanic was operating hit his rt shoulder . the injury resulted in a ac separation that required surgery . a safer method using
received a cwp diagnosis for employee .
ee climbed up side of conveyor to clean out 2nd receiving box on telescoping stacker when stacker telescoped in and caught right foot between conveyor frame . 5th metatarsal fracture and toe la ceration to right foot . treatment was a splint and sutures .
ee reported back pain believe to be caused by the loader seat .
north 4 , 7 entry , 71 block , spad # 8273 , mmu 004 . 18 ft. wide x 30 ft. long x 10 ft. high . support 6 ft. 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , straps , 12 ft cable truss bolts , screen . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall and clean up plan posted .
ee was cleaning up area net to storage shed when ee slipped on rock with muddy boot
ee stepped off the back of the service truck onto an unstable surface rock and twisted knee .
employee was moving roof bolt machine and caughthis left foot between the deck and mine floor .
the employee stepped of a ditchwitch 8020 rock saw and twisted his ankle when he touched the ground . ee was off work until 12-3-2007. when he came back , staff looked at his ankle and directed him to go to the emergency clinic right away . the ankle was x-rayed and found to be broken . ee was casted and sent home .
ee helping maintance person to reweld chute ee burned both eyes did not feel any pain until after shift . ee went to er that night because ofpain
employee worked overtime & ate lunch provided by noranda . began feeling ill and thought it was a stomach virus . upon returning home from work , the symptoms worsened and he was admitted to a hospital . he was diagnosed with colitis . the physician stated that whatever he had eaten 8 hours prior to his symptoms starting is what made him ill .
ee was coupling a belt trailer tongue to a disesel vehicle . belt trailer tongue was suspended in the air using a come along . trailer tongue did not align with the hole on the vehicle bumper . using his left hand , he pushed trailer tongue to align w/the vehicle bumper hole.come along chain suddenly slid down the tongue catching his finger resulting in a laceration .
at first break ee noticed eye irritation . he has no idea the source but thought it was an eyelash . ee is a motor mechanic and had done no grinding nor any task that would contribute to getting a foreign body in his eye . awoke the following day and had more irritation so went to clinic .
ee supposely hit his head while walking under over cast , break off track at break 33 see attached notes .
ee was tramming a d11 dozer when he unexpectly ran over a big rock the jar caused pain in his hip area .
ee was hanging bolter cable across entry when he twisted his right knee . ee continued to work and was taken off work on 4/1/2015 to repair a torn acl to his right knee .
7 h section while walking past the load center , he stepped on the rubber shock mat with muddy boots , slipped & fell twisting his right knee .
fall occurred over the weekend with no personnel in the mine . the fall encompassed an area 45 ' wide , 100 ' long , 8 ' thick . adverse geological conditions , mud , slips and faults we believe contr ibuted to the fall . we stopped mining in this room approx . two weeks ago due to these conditions .
inintentional roof fall . location 4 southwest/ no 4 entry/ at spad no . 7021. size 20 ft wide 130 ft long and 7-8 ft high . roof support : 5 ft tension bar .
the employe was struck below the right knee , causing an open tibia fracture , by a piece of metal banding that was released from under a front-end loader as the employee was spotting the front end loader operator .
subject was drilling hole for a bolt , when pieceof draw rock fell , striking him on the right hand . he did not seek medical attention for in-jury & hasn't as to date of this report ; he came by office & said he felt dr. wasn't necessary .
ee was changing the drill hammer . he broke the hammer loose and began replacing the chuck , when the hammer unit fell , catching his left index finger between the hammer unit and the drill deck .
employee when working in his area cone crusher he was wearing his ppe and harness and he slipped and fell 5ft from the ground never lost consciousness he was complaining about his left hand and his neck when ems arrived he was triage he refused transportation next day went to see dr. could not stand the pain .
employee was inspecting the pattern of whizzer blades in the cement mill separator when dust vibrated off of separator & entered right eye . given rx eye drops for conjunctivitis on 1/9/07 .
crew were pulling 5 ' tube . employee grabbed the tube with left hand and released the overshot with right hand . when overshot release employee lost balance . regained balance and pulled teh tube out of drill string . later complained of pain in lower back .
employee was handmucking the face , when he experienced pain in his right shoulder . his dr took him off work on 6/19/2007 .
employee suffered a hearing loss identified through newmont mining corporation's hearing conservation program .
ee was removing a cutting edge from a skid-steer with an impact gun . when nut loosened he was holding bolt in with his finger . the bolt dropped & spun cutting his left index finger ( 9 sutures )
unplanned roof f fall occurred at break # 15 ( # 2 belt ) in the # 2 right entry c.c . at spad # 82. the fall was approx . 20 ' l. x 18'w . x 6 ' h. no injuries or entrapment involved . no escapeways , walkways , equipment or ventilation affected . jacks have been set in area .
at approx . 5:35 am , a roof fall at or above the anchorage was discovered in the a entry return of the 4north mains . the fall was approx . 20 ft long 18 ft. wide and 6 ft. high . there were no injuries or property damage . the fall was dangered off and the return was rerouted .
doing repair on excavator bucket ; piece of metalslipped ; cut & broke 3 fingers on left hand
while helping two other ee's hang miner cable , ee experienced pain in his groin area afterwards .
incident was to have occurred while this employee was walking behind the scoop . he said he tripped over a crib block laying on the mine floor covered up with rockdust . when he fell he landed o n his elbow . cause of this injury was awareness and not picking up tripping hazards laying around . compliance with rules/regs not a factor ; miner proficiency a factor . equip . not a factor .
at approx . 12:10 am on 1/5/2014 a roof fall above the anchorage was found in the f ( intake ) entry of the 6left off 4north section . the roof fall was at survey spad # 21+10 and extended inby to about 21+50 . the fall was about 40ft . long 17ft . wide and 6.5ft . high . all areas were dangered off around it and the escapeway was rerouted . there were no injuries or property damage .
ee states : working on feeder , pulling on hydraulic hose and pulled lower back .
ee was flagging overhead crane when hook caught on mill door , then it suddenly freed itself and landed on top of his right foot .
employee was walking in a tight area between a mantrip vehicle and the rib of the drift . there was a sharp edge on the fuel tank . as he was walking by he ran his left forearm over the burr which caused a laceration . the laceration requied 21 sutures and he was released full duty for his next shift .
a unplanned roof fall occurred on the main north , entry # 5 , spad 36+00 , x cut 54. the fall is approximately 70 ' in length x 18 ' wide x 8 ' high .
injured ( leadman was assisting his crew with a stuck uniloader . the forks of the uniloader struck the roof meshing , causing a piece of the wire to propel and imbed in the injured's throat . met al piece was removed at the local emergency room .
employee was changing dump rope on marion 8050 dragline . when the rope was moved , a loop of the dump rope struck the employee in the ribs . he was transported to colstrip medical center and then to billings deaconess hospital .
employee was preparing to go through a mandoor when he slipped and fell in the mud twisting his left knee . lost time injury as of 3/7/11 due to surgery .
slipped on wet floor while using a squeegie to clean up spilled material , injured right shoulder trying to prevent fall . employee reported injury , did not seek medical attention until october 14 . 2006 when he was taken to hospital with shoulder pain . he has not missed any work hours due to this injury , as to date .
a roof fall occurred on # 1 unit , 8th ne panel # 6entry 30 ' outby spad no . 32956. in the same linewith the feeder at cross cut 14. the fall didn'teffect ventilation .
ee stated she was turning off the valve on a 3/4 '' water line when she turned loose the hose with one hand the hose flew back hit above right eye
ee was using a bar to pry up a wheel and got hishand smashed between the bar and the wheel .
ee was lifting mancage door-the door had been hard to open because of its weight . when attempted to open the door he twisted his back . he had pulled a muscle in his back 2 months previous lift ing the same door . he aggravated an old inj . although the accident happened on 4/30/03 , ee went back to his normal job until 5/22/03 .
ee was climbing up on a d8n dozer to fuel it . he foot slipped and he landed standing up . he alleges pain in his low back . he slipped from 1 st step which is 18 '' from ground level .
a roof fall occurred in the # 7 entry 250 feet inby spad # 18010. the fall was about 20 ft wide , 40 ft long , and 8 foot high . the area was bolted with 5 foot torque tenison bolts . the fall was crib and danger off , and will not be clean up .
ee was installing a chain binder to secure longwall pan line to the supply car . when he stood up he felt a sharp pain in lower left side of his back .
ee was walking to the transportation van in the parking lot & slipped on a piece of steel causi ng her to fall to the ground .
ee strained his shoulder while lifting/moving a hydraulic pump at the wedag crusher of the secondary crushing plant .
was installing a driveshaft into equipment when ee experienced a sharp pain in his back , the next a.m. it was not any better .
ee was blocking the lime & screening bin doors open with 4 '' x8 '' x16 '' wood blocks to prevent the doors from becoming frozen shut over the weekendhe placed 1 block in the # 8 bin door & another e e closed the door on the block . he then placed 1 block in the # 7 bin door , and the other ee closed the door on the block . when the # 7 bin door came shut it pushed the block toward the bloc
received a cwp diagnosis for ee no % disability at this time .
during a 2 man procedure of changing screens on 36 hummer , the proximal west side screen became jammed . ee positioned self on the edge of the opening to forcefully move screen . lost balance and slipped off edge hitting left chest wall on metal edges that protrude from side of hummer .
at 11:00 p.m. on 9/6/04 a fall was discovered in # 5 entry on # 1 section 1 break outby spad # 17569. the fall was 30 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high .
setting down twisting over reaching down to pullup board and putting it in place . boards were being handed up to him from below .
injured was installing belt structure over a belt drive . ee placed one end of a rail in the spreader and was climbing down to place the other end of rail . ee put hand on the motor to climb down and the rail fell striking hand .
employee was working on gates at the front entrance . he was using a hammer to drive a pin out of a hinge on the front gate . a piece of metal flew up and hit employee on the chin . the piece of metal went through his chin and chipped a lower tooth . dermabond was used to close the laceration in his chin .
slipped in a hole , twisted right knee on the longwall set up face in 15 west . continued to work until 10-7-06 .
fall in bleeder system 1 break outby spad # 951 .
employee sought medical attention on 7/18 for a strained shoulder that occurred when he released a brake on a railcar . he was released to full duty . he had an mri and an app't with an orthopedic surgeon on 8/16 revealed a torn rotator cuff . he is currently on restricted duty while awaiting surgery . this is being reported within 10 days of being placed on work restrictions .
when air arc a piece of metal off in a haul truck located in the mine shop , truck bay , sparks came up under the welding hood and safety glasses . thus causing a small superficial abrasion on the 3 o'clock of left eye's cornea . no fb on cornea or conjuctiva .
while putting in coal , he lifted wrong and strained his lower back . ( ee was shoveling coal into coal tanks . )
ee stated he was walking to mantrip , when he stepped on a piece of coal , causing him to twist his right knee and fall to bottom/mine floor . ee started missing work as a result of this incident on 9/25/08 .
our examiners found a roof fall during their weekly examinaton of the 3 left 4 main north ( 5a ) panel . the fall was located at crosscut 16 between entries 2 and 1. the fall was approximately 50 ' long , 18 ' wide and 7 feet high . the fall did not extend into either intersection and was confined to the crosscut . the fall was located adjacent to the examiners route of travel .
ie was struck by a piece of roof rock . the rock approximately 6 '' x 8 '' x 0-2 '' thick slid off the end of wire roof mesh and struck ee on the top side of ee's left forearm . this resulted in a laceration requiring 7 sutures to close .
the employee was working out near the dredge when the accident occurred . he was sitting on the bow of the jon boat attempting to pull the starboard swing cable back over the sheave while his heels were positioned on either side of the sheave to hold the boat in place . while the employee was pulling on the cable , the jon boat backed away turning his right leg .
the plant was shut down when ee went to install b58 belt on classifier fan . he pulled on belt and assistant pushed , causing his right pinky finger to run between belt and sheave . finger was broken and bleeding due torn tissue . he was taken to specialist in powell , wyoming for successful surgery . though serious , this injury was not life threatening .
tightening down preheater elements at filter farm . sprain of upper arm
ee reported their right thumb was sore on 5/29 from operating the caterpillar d8 . ee was evaluated on 5/29 with a strained right thumb and put on modified duty . on 5/31 ee was evaluated and released to full duty .
car hit hole in borttom hard jarred back while running shuttle car
claims exposure to nuisance dust caused sinus problems . opened doors of environmental cab to chew and smoke tobacco . minimal exposure to dust . ee did not report this for 9 months .
the ee was flipping over a steel plate on a work table when it fell and struck him on the top of his left foot . he sustasined a fracture of the first left metatarsal bone .
worker was connecting a hose to a jumbo drill using a snaplock victaulic coupling . the coupling was difficult to snap closed so worker struck the snap handle with a wrench . the coupler close d pinching his left middle finger .
traveling too fast down an incline , he tried to slow down by applying left brake . he applied toohard and the engine was neutralized . steering became difficult and he lost control , side-swiped a pickup , ran up a berm and turned on it's side.he received minor cuts and scrapes on left leg . the rock breaker is repairable .
no specific incident.he has been a mechanic for 13+ yrs & reported discomfort in his r.knee attributable to ongoing , repetitive bending , kneeling & crouching down while performing routine mechanic duties.doctor prescribed restrictions that we were unable to accommodate-resulted in him missing his next 4 shifts.f/u appt-he received a full release.will file rtw on next shift 7/30/13
power was lost to spider and needed to be restored . four miners were trapped . there were 111 us steel employees working at time of entrapment and 24 contractors . msha was notified at 4:56 p.m .
the employee went to the company clinic on 5/1/2006 and was placed on restricted duty . the employee allegedly strained his lombar spine while shoveling materials , resulting in a herniated disc . ( alleged )
ee was installing a 6 '' x20 ' steel conveyor belt line structure . one end fell of forks of forklift . ee stradded the structure and lifted it back onto forks the forklift operator raised the forks before ee was clear , striking ee in groin .
it was raining & when it got to work the ee got on the bumper of the pickup truck & slipped & fell on the ground about 3 or 4 feet to the ground landing on the lumbar & pelvic area of his body resulting in back and pelvic pain .
ee while helping another employee lift separation lid off strained his back .
the ee slipped after showering . he grabbed a locker door to catch himself . he cut his tight thumb on the door . stitches were used on the laceration .
employee was assisting in installation of b side course refuse screen discharge chute . employee was sitting on a pipe working when a come along under the leg broke causing employee to lose balance and fall to the floor . this resulted in employee receiving 3 stitches on the back of the head .
employee was coming out of the cab of the dozer , walking on the tracks to step down to the ground , when ee stepped into the area of a missing plate on the track . ee's right foot slipped into a missing track piece which is around 8 '' x 24 '' in diameter . employee twisted right knee with a possible mcl strain . an mri was done , waiting for results . this will be a lost time accident .
employee was struck by shotcrete falling from the roof .
employee was jostled while seated ( seatbelt on ) in the cab of a haul truck while being loaded . on 3/13/2018 employee went to the doctor where they were prescribed physical therapy making the event reportable .
employee was attempting to clear a bagger spout with a metal rod . while checking to see if spout was open , hydrated lime shot out of spout . the lime deflected off the cross member of the seat causing some lime to get into employee's left eye . employee flushed eye out but after 45 minutes it still was bothering him . e'ee went to emergency room .
two workers were doing repair work on the top deck of the telesmith screen which required some welding . one was helping hold the metal to be welded into place while the other did the welding . he apparently suffered some flash burns while the metal was being tacked into place even though he was in the open & not looking directly at the arc . he didn't have difficulty until that night
the ee slipped while getting out of the bed of a pickup truck after retrieving an item and his lower right leg contacted the truck as he fell . there were no initial signs of an injury other than a small bruise . as the day progressed the bruising and swelling increased . ultimately the employee had ruptured a small artery causing a hematoma that had to be surgically relieved .
employee had an apparent heart attack at # 34 crosscut at the # 3 track switch . victim was riding ( passenger ) . the mantrip operator stopped to throw the switch , looked back and noticed him slumped over in mantrip .
indivual has been granted an award for permanent impairment resulting from noise induced hearing loss .
ee was hanging curtian in cross cut for scoop to get thru to claen . scoop car backed over foot .
the employee was changing the hammer vavle on the south line . the valve spun and the employee reached out to grab it - it came to a stop against the pipe wedging the employees finger , causing a laceration to left index finger .
employee has experienced a standard threshold shift in employee's hearing in the 2000 , 3000 & 4000 hz level as compared to the baseline reading in 2011 .
the ee and a co-worker were attempting to put a bolt into a victaulic hugger when the clamp that was being used to hold the hugger in place slipped off the hugger smashing the ee's middle fing er on his left hand .
employee was checking 15 and 16 precipitator , after checking 15 and 16 precipitator employee crossed over pipes to close 3 fill header , employee tripped over pipes and fell on his back .
employee was stepping off of manlift onto the 160 conveyor catwalk when he strained his left knee .
as the propman was traveling towards the headgate of the longwall , the face yielded and a large lump of coal came over the panline striking the individual on his left side knocking him back in to the shields . this occurred at shield 115-116 where there are 147 shield on the face . this caused a fracture of the right femur .
customer driver was tarping trailer when he lost his footing and fell backwards approx 6 ft to the ground . the skin was broken on his scalp & left arm was tender & swollen . ! st aid was administered & he was transported by ems to hospital . he was treated & released with instructions to have follow-up x-rays to determine if elbow is broken . he is still under doctor care as of 6/6/08 .
employee was using a pneumatic torque wrench to tighten the u bolts on leaf springs . he was holding the wrench in his right hand and stabilizing the bolt with his left hand . he inadvertently had the gun set to loosen instead of tighten , when he pulled the trigger the gun moved in opposite direction than he anticipated pinching the palm of his left hand . resulting in stitches .
ee was taking a rock off a skid to place on his cutting table , he felt a strain in his pelvic area . he had been diagnosed as having an inguinal hernia .
while the eee was attempting to upright an approximately 200 pound steel shaft from ground level to a vertical position , the shaft slipped from his hands and crushed the tips of his fingers ag ainst the floor .
employee suffering from symptoms of diabetic trauma , contacted ems for transport to bluefield regional medical center . reported later that employee has infection in employee's foot from a prior amputation of toe .
ee was standing on the grates covering the pit . one of the grates slipped and he struck his lower left leg on a small metal rod sticking out from one of the grates . ee had several sutures and a 1cm x 1cm puncture wound .
when ee was working in the kiln on 1/24/00 and 1/25/00 , he went to throw bricks through the kiln on the morning of 1/25/00 when he felt a sharp burning pain/sensation in his right and left sho ulder area . the pain and burning sensation is still present and intense as it was at first . he is seeking medical attention on 1/28/00 .
employee was helping remove table from vsi crusher . table bound on the shaft suddenly released . table came to rest hitting employee's legs against crusher wall . employee extricated himself immediately .
ee caught the tip of his left ring finger between the tailgate and grain lock on dump trailer . he was pulling tailgate away from trailer when his ring finger got caught on grain lock severing the tip of his finger .
ee states he was operating the cm when a piece of cap rock fell just inby the last row of bolts . the cap rock struck the end of the ventilation tube , causing the tube to fall & strike him on the head & neck .
employee was clearing a duct using a steel jackhammer bit as a pry bar . a chunk of matrerial struck the end of the bit causing it to pivot upwards striking the employee's chin causing a lacera tion and fracture of his jaw bone .
a roof fall occurrred in the # 2b intake entry # 5 just inby 9500'w . the roof fall is approximately 65'l x 18'w x 12'h . the roof was supported with 6 ' and 10 ' point anchor roof bolts . the fall will be cleaned up and resupported with roof bolts and arches .
employee was disconnecting a discharge hose from a 6 '' water pump . the pump had been running but not pumping & had become very hot , the hose was full of steam . when the line came loose it hit the employee causing burns to his rt . arm & leg .
in attempt to remove a 50 lb bag from the production line , the bag tilted over forcing employee's right hand and wrist to be strained .
ee was using a piece of metal/pipe to clear an aggregate blockage at the crushing plant chute . when the blockage began to clear , pieces of loose aggregate fell on ee right hand . the falling aggregates caused two small cuts , a swollen middle finger and some numbness in the pinky finger .
ee was cutting rubber protectors with a utility knife on the dry deck and lacerated palm of his rt . hand requiring stitches .
the ee was assisting a co-worker . he was holding a bolt in place while the co-worker was using an impact gun . when the bolt spun , it cut his lt. index finger . he was transported to the e.r . for treatment and the cut was closed with sutures .
on 4/2/2009 employee was in the process of hooking up a 4 ' retrieval hook link and it slipped out of his hand and fell on his right hand middle finger mashing it against the launch pad . first aid was administered and he was transported to summersville hospital for treatment .
while making a convyer belt splice , ee received a laceration that required 3 sutures to close .
ee's knees got infected due to his knee pad straps irrirtating the back of his knees .
ee was performing his norn job duties which include bending , lifting , etc . the following morning he wok with lower back pain .
on 4-14-00 ee twisted his knee working on the leach pad , but did not go to a dr. on 5-25-00 while doing his preshift walk around he tripped over a flange left on a stair case , reinjring the sa me knee . he didnt go to a dr until 5-31-00 and had on mri done on july 14th . the mri showed a cartlage was torn but he will not be operated on tuntil nov .
ee was climbing ladder to the haul truck cab . he claims his left knee popped and he felt pain .
employee was trying to start the lt-58 lo-trac and could not . ee opened the engine cover to see if the breaker was knocked , the engine cover came down on ee's right index finger causing injury to the tip end of the finger .
employee was using a 2 lb sledge and steel bar to position wedge on steadman crusher when he missed bar and struck his left hand with 2 lb sledge .
in the # 9 entry 1 blk inby spad # 5148 , a roof fall 8'h x 25'lx17'w occured . the area was mined 4 years ago , it is not a normal travelway . the mine examiner noted a chg there week prior to the fall and set breaker posts & dangered it off expecting a fall soon . the area was bolted with 5/8 x60 '' resin bolts with 8x8 plates .
a welder with ( approximately 23 years experience ) was removing 1 '' roundstock out of a steel rack on the rougher floor . the piece of steel was approximately 20 feet long , weighing about 53 lbs . as he was pulling the steel off the rack , he felt a pain in his lower back .
ee was prying with a pipe to close a reclaim gate . the pipe slipped , pinching his thumb between the pipe and the reclaim gate .
employee was emptying the baghouse hopper . the dust from it went up pant leg .
ee was replacing buckets on a clinker bucket elevator when the wind came up blowing dust in eyes . administered first aid at plant and then sent to eye care center to remove particles . prescrip tion was issued .
while driving the coal hauler , ee hit a rut causing her to bounce up & landed hard on the seat , resulting in discomfort on her back & leg .
ee had been running a rubber tired loader # 4382 and hurt his back while operating the loader . don't know when injury occurred ee's last day at work was 10/14 then he was rained out/lack of work . injury wasn't reported until 10/17 to foreman .
employee pulled hose up steep hill , and was coming back down when his feet slipped and he fell 15 ft down and then tumbled another 15 ft down .
employee # 1 was getting off manbus . another employee # 2 in front of him was talking so employee # 1 walked around employee # 2 and slipped and fell injuring his right knee . there was nothing in the walkway that he tripped over or slipped on .
ee had a drill steel lodged in the mine roof when installing an 8 foot double lock bolt . while he was in the process of getting the drill steel out of the roof , he accidentally caught his left index finger between the bolter wrench and the mine roof . he was taken to the hospital and had to have stitches to close a cut on the index finger .
a fall was found by employe and reported to foreman in the northwest section approx . 20 ' inby station # 329 in the # 1 entry . the fall is about 20 ' wide by 80 ' long and 5-6 ' in height . ventilati on was not interrupted . all walls found intact . area was timbered and dangered off .
ee hit his knee on belt structure .
ee was disassembling a f-900 screen . he was stepping down from the tube cover to the floor area and his left foot landed on a 3x3 piece of angle iron and sprained his left ankle . ee did not go the clinic until later that night .
on 01/13/2018 , ee was walking to mobile equipment and right leg became stuck in mud up to about shin . ee was offered professional medical treatment and declined . instead treated leg with ice ( first aid ) . ee requested professional medical treatment and was treated on 02/26/2018 . ee was assigned restrictions by medical .
employee was stepping over a screwline when his foot got caught on the screw causing him to fall . when he went to catch himself he sprained his wrist . x-rays revealed a small chip in his wrist .
ee was working on a chunk of clinker in the reclaim tunnel with a pry bar . bar slipped and ee smashed his hand between pry bar and side of feeder .
the employee stated that he had just completed installing a corner roof bolt at 5-6 xc . he had his hand resting on the tray of the bolter , and as he was retracting the boom assembly back in toward the roof bolting machine , the roof bolts on the tray of the roof bolter slid forward , pinching his left index finger between the lip on the tray and the roof bolts .
ee suffered lime burn to both eyes.the ee & his co-worker were raking refractory bricks out of the kiln hood.was wearing the required face shield/safety glasses , he felt a sharp burning pain in both of eyes.he immediately stopped & flushed eyes out.ee then went to er & was given rx eye drops & saw a specilist that monday .
the injured employee wass loosening hand brake on rail car when he slipped & hit bottom on the car drawhead . the accident was determined to be `` lost time '' on 07/11/2005 .
employee was working indoors in the chilton manufacturing building packaging stone . employee was trimming a stone using a hammer and chisel and missed the top of the chisel . this resulted in the hammer striking the employee's right index finger .
ee slipped on slate and coal while filling water tank on the maintenance vehicle for filling batteries . ee fell down under the vehicle and hurt his right hip and right shoulder - lower back pain . initial x-rays neg . 1st day missed was 1/6/06 ( mine was shut down 1 week at christmas ) . x-ray & mri by ortho . specialist . diag . vertebra problem , surgical repair required .
ee was walking through mill building ; she ducked under new tails line pipe and upon standing up she hit her head on the pipe . ee lost her footing and stumbled forward , striking her head on the contractor gang box and then falling and landing on her right leg and arm .
employee was prying on a liner when it came loose and fell on ee's foot . after walking around , foot started to swell ; ee was taken to the er , and referred to a specialist . ongoing .
ee was running a 488 scoop in the outby area at # 6 belt head . the scoop ran over an old track tie , causing it to pop up & hit him on the right arm causing a laceration which required 9 stitche s .
ee was picking up tray ( approx 5 # ) out of tool box and had low back pain .
terex haulage truck operator washed the unit & then started to move to a parking area when the unit died . he exited the cab to check the engine compartment . when lifting the hood he slipped on the wet vehicle and slid to the ground ( gravel road ) landing on his knees .
ee was crawling over gob @ # 1 shield and slipped , injuring his left hip and left knee .
ee reported to work 6/4/00 with lump on shoulder . claimed had been stung by wasp 3 days previously ; later claimed it by spider , later horsefly - while sitting at desk in office trailer . no wit ness and not reported to foreman at the time . sent to er 6/4/00 .
while walking down stairs from 4t-04 , ee felt pain in right knee
an unexplained roof fall ( slip ) occurred . no equipment , entrapment , or airways were interrupted . the slip was 5 ' wide x 4.5 ' thick and 15 ' long . the location of the slip was at break 217 on # 12 belt . this fall was not above anchorage , but the current msha inspector felt we should report it .
the employee was closing the exterior door for the overtracks silo elevator when his finger was caught between the handle ( on the top door ) and the bottom door . the door is a bi-parting door . when the top section of the door is pulled downward the bottom section automatically moves upward until the sections meet . both sections are equipped with rubber astragal .
employee alleges was cutting a zip tie and the utility knife slipped and cut ee's left hand . ee received stitches .
removing filter bags from cages on baghouse , repetitive motion . reported injury to supervisor on 12/8/05 . employee thought it was just sore muscles , but pain has not diminished . pete lien & sons employees went to wyoming lime producers to help with annual maint . issues . employee normally works at the pete lien & sons rapid city quarry and mill , 39-00020 .
ee was digging out product that had stopped up screw and hauling away with wheel barrel . the next day his back was locked up and had to have help out of bed .
employees foot was caught between the metal frame of a airlock door and a rubber tired pers . carrier .
walking across worksite , slipped on ice and fell onto ground hitting her knee
he was inside the cab of the auger preparein to change out the heads . he was reaching for the todoor and caught his hand between crowd liver an dguard he was taken to the whitsburg arn er . the y did partial amputation on his middle finger of the right hand and kept him in the hospital .
a roof fall was found while walking a weekly exam . in size it was 17'x20'x5 ' high max . it is located # 1 entry between crosscut 2-3 of the 3 l1w panel neck this is also crosscut 6 off the 1 wes t return . the fall was caused by a slip and wet conditions . no one was injured no property damage .
employee had soreness/aching in his shoulder from performing repetitive work . had carpal tunnel surgery october 2010 hoping this would take care of the pain . pain persisted and worsened by performing the same work , he reported back to doctor complaining of same pain . doctor scheduled mri january 2011 , results show a tear in shoulder , scheduled surgery march 2011 .
employee was tramming dozer towards parking lot when he was blinded by the sun . the dozer dropped over a hump , hitting the blade and causing the dozer to stop abruptly . ee hit his head on cab of dozer ( 11 stitches to forehead . )
employee was trying to flip/roll 6 '' rubber pump line that was full of water . as he was doing this motion he felt a burning in his rt bicep/shoulder . employee continued to work until a later date when he went and seen a dr. who sent him to a specialist that told him he would need to have the tendon repaired . ee worked until day of surgery 8-29-13 then rtw on 8-30-13
supervisor was holding a pair of channel locks pliers holding a bolt . the pliers slipped & he cut his hand on a sharp piece of the face flightcause of injury was not wearing protective glove s compliance with rules.regs a factor , protective equip a factor miner attitude a factor mining equip/systems could be a factor
ee awarded 1.5 % hearing loss .
received a cwp claim for ee on 10/1/2013 .
employee was setting support at the corner of xc 53 in 2mn 2e where there was a previous rib roll . ie had scaled the roof prior to setting a timber . ie was slightly bent forward to install the timber between the edge of the roof mesh and the rib . the rib sloughed off and a piece of cap rock struck the ie .
tightening bolt on variable implement pump on northshore mining - babbits # 228 992g loader . bolt in difficult access location so a short wrench was used . ee was pulling on wrench with all he had and felt a a muscle tore in his navel area . went to emergency room and was diagnosed with a umbilical hernia ( belly button ) . employee may/will need surgery .
while untangling a rope , structure shifted and ee fell down and hurt his back . ee is not expected to return to work due to permanent restrictions .
an operator cut his right ear on a pneumatic fitting while trying to remove a busted bag from a conveyor . operator was moving from the backside of the bagger between the bagger spouts to remove the busted bag . operator did not shut the conveyor off to remove the bag , therefore he was moving through the area quickly in an attempt to remove the busted bag from the conveyor .
ee was reaching into tool box when lid fell striking his right hand , lacerating his knuckle .
employee was hired on 5/27/04 as a mechanic . due to continuing neck pain , employee had mri of his neck conducted on 9/10/04 . on 9/14/04 employer received mri results stating that employee had developed spondylosis & facet hypertrophy . ( employee placed on restricted duty on 9/16/04 . )
employee was bolting the face of # 2 entry in 5 west development section when a piece of roof coal fell from the immediate mine roof striking him in the right ear . ppe was not a factor , mining systems was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
ee stepped on uneven surface and twisted ankle .
ee had complaints of numbness and tingling in both hands . was diagnosed with carpal tunnel . ee had surgery on 12-06-02. she returned to work on 12-09-02. her next scheduled workday . ee will be working with restictions of one hand dut only for 2-4 weeks . will have surgery on left hand at a later date .
ee used a cigarretic lighter to inspect water level in 12 volt battery . battery exploded in ee's face . safety glass were being .
ee was loading shotgun shells into a single shot kiln gun . another ee was firing the gun . he had placed a shell into the firing chamber when the other ee closed the firing mechanism before h is finger was out of the way . his right middle finger tip was pinched between the shell and the firing mechanism . it was cut and required 3 sutures .
ee was waiting on miner when a piece of falling material fell striking him on his middle and ring fingers . 7000-1 is being filed in order to terminate a citation written during a part 50 audit . did not know until this time that the ee had a fracture to the tip of his finger , due to the fact that he returned to work the next day to his regular job .
ee was assisting b & g service technician with replacement of impeller & housing on # 5 underflow booster pump . ee was standing 4 ' from service truck when lightning struck the cb antenna on truck knocking ee to ground .
ee stated he was helping a co-worker put a bearing on no.5 belt take-up carriage roller shaft . he was straddling belt roller & holding the bearing as the co-worker was knocking bearing onto roller shaft with chisel & hammer . several pieces of metal flew off bearing striking him in lt arm & leg . pieces of metal became lodged in arm & were removed by a dr. & sutures applied .
ee was bolting top and a piece of draw rock fell stricking ee on his right foot causing a bruise .
laying rail in 23d , moving the rail with a slate bar 18 '' butting it up to the installed rail to install a fishplate and felt a pain in the lower stomach/groin area . diagnosed with hernia on 6/2/14 . no issue with mining machines , methods , ppe or compliance .
employe got lime dust in left eye while measuring kiln silos lowered tape measure into measuring port causing dust to blow up in face and under glasses .
ee states he was cleaning a feeder belt chute with a rod and hit hand against piece of iron .
he was lifting a crusher wearplate and turned wrong . strained his left shoulder and upper back .
while using a razor-edged knife to cut wiper material on a conveyor , ee cut his left leg just above knee . laceration approx one half inch long , need two sutures .
ee was cleaning blocks out of the crusher . a block fell on his finger , causing a laceration & fracture to his left index finger
employee was walking on a loader catwalk . ee ducked to go under a side mirror and struck head on the mirror bracket . a bolt on the bracket hit just under the hard hat brim . ee's head split open from the blow , starting at the forehead and ending at the middle of the top of ee's head .
a rock measuring 4 ' x 7 ' x 1 '' -4 '' fell striking employee on his right foot . employee was transported to raleigh general hospital and was diagnosed with a fractured big toe . employee was scheduled for out patient surgery but instead was admitted on 9-23-11 for surgery to correct his fractured toe .
ee states that while tightening bolts on pipe flange , he felt a pain in groin area .
ee was helping unload a new vertical air compressor that had just been delivered . the compressor had been placed in a loader bucket from the delivery truck and was being unloaded into the shop . he strained his back while trying to get the compressor out of the loader bucket .
injured was building a crib on top of an overcast at 34 block 1 north . when he went to pick a crib block off the ground to install it another crib block was thrown up on top of the overcast pinching his right ring finger between the cribs resulting in a commutated compound fracture of the distal phalange . no issue with ppe , mining methods , machinery , training or compliance .
employee was trying to remove a pinner steel from the roof . as he jerked on the steel it finally came out . when the steel came out of the hole it bounced off the pot and hit the ee in the fore head causing a laceration .
ee was helping maintenance pull cages out of the cloth bags that are a part of our dust collector system . he was pulling on this particular cage , when the cage became stuck . ee slid a screw driver insided the top of the cage to give himself some leverage . ee was pulling down w/his legs . heard a pop and sharp pain to his lower right abdomen .
ee was bagging material when he got over heated he started vomiting & having stomach cramps . it was hot & humid & ee did not drink enough water . also , shortness of breath
the ee was performing the `` walk-around '' inspection of his haul truck prior to the beginning of the shift . he stepped into the parking ditch , stumbled and fell into the left reat tires of the t ruck , straining his back . he complained later of soreness in his chest . he was seen in the er on 10-29-01 for evaluation and treatment .
while traveling the return entry , a mine examiner found a reportable roof fall in e-1 headgate , entry 3 , xc 41 to 42. the fall was approximately 6 feet high , 20 feet wide , and 25 feet long .
ee had used a cable pulley to lift screens from the ground to the screen deck . he was attempting to remove the pulley from the chain that was holding it . as he lifted the pulley to unhook the chain , the pulley slipped and the chain whipped around and struck his finger .
ee was changing a flat tire on a shuttle car . he was balancing the good tire when it got away from him & started to fall . he tried to catch it from falling to the ground & strained his back . ee worked until the 14th of february .
company employee ( not mine employee ) slipped while exiting excavator and cut right palm on a piece of metal bracing concrete barriers for pond ee was removing silt from .
the ee was trying to get slack on feeder cable by pulling it , when pain occurred between shoulder blades on right side .
xcut 3-4 at 5+37 at intersection in # 3 started working approximately 9:00 am . employee called to inform me and said that they were cribbing & timbering . on the way in i contacted the outside and by 9:30 am i was informed that the above area had caved in on the ld box .
emloyee was stepping down off a piece of equipment and slipped on the bottom step straining his knee . he was placed in immobilization device for three of his scheduled days off . he was released to full duty at that time . he returned to work on his next regular schedule shift not requiring the brace .
on 4/30/2013 employee riding in mantrip strained neck when mantrip struck parked mantrip . employee became restricted duty on 7/23/2013 due to this injury .
truck `` a '' was dumping his load when truck `` b '' backed in beside him . truck a's tailgate froze shut and his load did not come out , he pulled forward , the trailor rocked and then the bottom jack pin broke and the trailor fell over onto truck b's drivers side . the trailor trapped injureds foot onto the floor board .
roof fall just outby spad no . 448 in no . 4 entry . fall is 20'x20 ' approximately 4.5 ' to 5 ' high . located in a neutral entry approximately 50 cross-cuts outby the face in a previous fall area .
while the ee was moving cable from the roadway , he jumped out of the way of the shuttle car and hit the rib of the mine causing a pulled neck muscle .
team member received a papercut to their right index finger on 7-5-18. washed the cut out with soap and water and put latex glove over it . 7-12-18 team member went to dr for antibiotics for infection to the papercut . 7-17-18 ee was taken to hospital for care and to prevent septic shock .
employee stated ee was walking next to belt line when foot became stuck in the mud resulting in a twisting motion to back causing severe pain . employee was transported outside on backboard to waiting ambulance . employee was taken to hospital and was given time off until 9/10/18 .
injured was barring on a chunck in an ore chute when he felt a sharp pain in his neck and right shoulder .
changing a return roller . the employees thought that the brackets that hold the roller in place were on top of the frame of the convoyer but were not , they were on the bottom . one employee let his side loose first , letting the roller free to swing into the other employees finger , smashing it into the frame .
welding pipe spool in jack stands . while rollingpipe it climbed out of jack stand & was falling.ee grabbed pipe as it fell & caught his left ring finger between 2 pieces of steel , cutting it .
employee states she was going down the stairs from scalehouse and slipped down the stairs hit rear end , right knee and right elbow
ee was removing an end dump tire when he started having right shoulder pain . he did not see a doctor at that time . ee stated that over the last several months he has been experiencing pain in his shoulder . on april 24 , 03 he was diagnosed with tendonitis , placed on restricted duty .
while operating 50 ton off road truck he startedexperiencing pain in right side and felt numb inthe same area . he reported on 9/26 after seeing doctor on 9/19 and out of work since . he indicat ed current work conditions contributed to pain . in doctor's report he did not indicate this as awork-related injury . delay in reporting was due to the doctor's findings .
a methane ignition occurred on the 001 section when upon finishing the cleanup run in the # 4 entry the bits came in contact witht he mine roof methane was ignited for approx 5-9 seconds .
while moving ductwork from its previously stored position due to windy conditions the ductwork slipped out of the employees hands and struck him in the left upper thigh causing a laceration to his leg . there was a laceration approximately six inches in length with about two inches of the laceration being deep .
north 7 , 77 block , 4 entry mmu 003-0 , 4-way support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , screen , pans , 12 ' cable truss and 12 ' cable bolts . 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 10 ' high fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site
ee was alking down the intake entry and stepped into a hole and tripped , ee caught himslef with his right leg and this caused him to twist his knee that resulted in a spain .
ee was walking down the stairs the id fan tripped . ee went to get a rod and noticed one of the port doors was  way open when id fan started back up , the door blew open , along with hot cement dust that blew out of the port door . ee was wearing safety glasses & face shield but some dust still got in eyes . treated for corneal abrasion .
ee strained his back when lifting on the miner cable during a power move . he continued working his regular job until 3/18/08 , his first day missed .
ee was using a porta-power ram weighing approx . 35 lb to press a bearing on a hard bar for a tractor . he was holding up the ram while another ee was running the air pad . he states he was in a twisted position creating a strain and felt a tingling in his back . he works a 4 on 4 off schedule and didn't report to management until 7/15/02
injured was lifting # 11 miner cable when he feltpain in middle back .
ee felt burning sensation to bottom of [ l ] foot while working on the press floor at about 2:30 p.m. ee checked boot and sock , but did not notice anything . when ee got home he noticed a hole and black area [ dime size ] to [ l ] foot heel . ee found 2 staples imbedded in bottom of boot , causing prongs to poke the bottom of his foot . ee was placed on restricted duty on 02/04/2008 .
the crew was inspecting an 8 '' t pipe . they released the bottom and side sections of the pipe , as they started to loosen up the top section , they started to release the come along . they rested the pipe on the hand rail , then removed the come along , pipe was too heavy for ee and he lost control of it causing it to fall and smash ee's finger against the hand rail .
ee was checking coal chute raised door ispection plate and metal door fell on left arm . he said the door slipped out of his hand , ee worked til 7-14-00 and said his arm was sore went to dr. sa id it had got infected . scratch got infected hadto be treated for infection .
ee had the hood of the 400d haul truck open checking trans fluid . another ee approached to see what ee was doing . ee then squatted down on the side of the truck's left front fender , as ee was squatting down ee fell off the truck and landed on head/shoulder .
ee was taking belt lapper off belt and belt popped up striking him on the forehead .
employee was receiving scsr expectations training using artificial smoke . injured stated that while he was exiting the room he tripped on a chair causing pain in his lower back . medical records have indicated that this is degenerative disc disease .
employee was washing down a concrete aisleway , started to walk down the incline , when he slipped and fell .
ee was walking down a slope to place a small cotton rope over the berm . as he walking down the berm , he slipped on a rock and stumbled . he was able to catch himself and did not fall but as the day progressed , he started to feel pain in his left heel .
ee reported for work on sat june 7 , 2003 complaining of back pain . he worked friday , the 6th and did not have back pain . he does not know of a specific event that caused back pain , he does ha ndle 50 lb of explosives . issued a prescription drug on june 10th making this case recordable .
employee possibly had a stroke while working . was sitting in cab of highwall miner when another employee noticed slurred speech .
incident first reported only as a first aid situation . ee tripped over a scraper/rake handle and hit his leg against rake part causing a bruise and two small cuts to lower left shin . on 4-24-0 0 ee requested to see physician and was subsequently put on modified duty .
employee reported he was bolting a flange using an impact wrench . wrench slipped off of nut & ee injured his back .
removing forms on 26205 drag . burning out metal form in a confined area under breaker , ee moved to get in po0sition to make next cut . his right elbow hit breaker , he flinched and reaction caus ed torch to pass over left wrist .
ee was holding an electronic sensor in place with his right hand while pulling a drive belt on another part of the machine with his left hand . his right hand caught in between two surfaces and he recieved a laceration on the back of his hand . he recieved 6 stitches to close the laceration and there was no impairment resulting
developed carpal tunnely & cubital tunnel syndrom surger was performed 1/5/01 this was determined to be work reltated
pulling chocker cable to drill , ground was muddy , ee slipped . he kept on working , did not report being hurt , ran dozer rest of day . did not call in or report for work 10-23 , 10-24-06. called at 3:45 pm on 10-24-06 and said he had hurt his back .
ee was working around a belt drive , another ee was striking a bolt with a hammer , when injured felt pain in his left knee . ee went to er where a piece of metal was removed .
driller and victim were pulling drill steel from the carousel . while guiding a piece of steel ee slipped in the mud covering the shot area . he let go of the steel and grabbed the drilling tabl e to steady himself . the steel then swung back and hit his hand , breaking his middle and index fingers on his right hand .
employee has been working in the waste heat dept since 9/20/2005 . he alleges that the task of unplugging the boilers has been repetative motion and has caused discomfot in his hands and wrists . have been awating diagnosis from company dr. report filed when that became available .
an unintentional roof fall occurred along 1 westtrack haulage at 53 1/2 wall . the fall measured ~16'w x 20'l x 6'high . no injuries or equipment damaged . this area had beams and false roof inst alled . old fall area .
while working on a dart ch-160 trailer , ee was lowering the axle on jacks and extentions and the axle began to roll off of the jacks and landed on ee's left foot and crushed it .
during a fireboss run a roof fall was identified in the # 8 neutral entry inby spad # 6997. the fall was approx . 50 ' l x 20 ' w x 4'-5 ' h. the area was supported by 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts . the area was mined approx 5/06 . cribs have been set and the area dangered off .
ee was climbing ladder to drill when slipped and fell backwards off ladder .
employee was removing tube assembly from screen with a come-along . tube caugth on floor , causing to to jump , striking him in the arm .
the employee was operating an overburden drill , when for some unknown reason the drill rig toppled over onto its left side . the employee fell from the cab against the drill steels . he received a cut above his eye and scrapes to his right side . the outriggers were extended and the rig was leveled before the boom was rasied .
rock fall in the face area of the no . 5 entry which entrapped the gaylis 300 roof bolter approx 80 ' in by spad 4958 on the 001 unit . the machine will not be recovered . fall was approx 5 ' high 40 ' long 20 ' wide .
member was unloading 4 wide by 8 long pallets made out of 2 by 6s with 4 runners on the bottom off of a flat car into a scoop bucket . while doing so he experienced sharp pain in his lower back causing him to go to his knees with the pain . he took himself to summersville medical center emergency room for treatment .
employee was cutting loose a steel plate at the abc reclaim hopper with a torch . as ee was cutting the plate loose , the plate became unstable and fell on the employee's left leg . the employee was performing maintenance on the hopper at the time of the incident .
around 11am 1 ladder rung was found to be broken in the # 3 mancage . the ladder is used to exit the cage in case of emergency . the decision was made to evac the mine until the ladder could be repaired . the ladder was repaired by 12pm thus cancelling the evac .
the slope car was inoperable from 1:35 a.m. until 9:10 a.m. since it was off track with a truck hauling the longwall tail drive .
teen age kids were traveling s on bolander rd . went off the r side of road then off the l side of road and hit parked rr cars sitting on the side track .
date reported 12/12/03 , ee worked outside on 12/05/03 , maintenance-grinding-welding-etc . very cold day . ee then got into the loader about 4 pm & started to warm up . he felt burning in his eyes . did not report the issue . saturday 12/6/03 he went to his dr. & stated that his eye was irritated & the dr. provided him w/ointment . eye still hurt , went back & they extracted a piece metal
employee strained himself lifting lid on toolbox . a hernia developed & required medical care . ee began missing work 2/5/07 .
employee was operating a loader when a rock came off the highwall , went through the windshield striking the operator's forearm & left leg . stitches were required in his leg .
an unintentional roof fall occured on 1st ne mains inby spad # 3036 in old neutral entry . fall measured 20'long , 18'wide , 5'high . this fall is 60 ' inby spad # 3036 .
ee was climbing up the # 1 kiln hood ladder to clean hood psi top . while at the 4th rung from the bottom he hit his left knee causing him to fall backward from the ladder landing on the floor o n his right foot , he then felt pain in his righthip .
galena hoist man called the hoist would not reset . he pushed the e-stop button , left the hoist cab to use the restroom . when he got back he hit the reset and nothing happened . the electricians arrived and check breakers and fuses . found 2 fuses on the control power box blown . no reason why they blown but replaced fuses and hoist fired back up .
ee was operating a roof bolter drilling with sectional augers . as he put the auger sections together they were not properly aligned . when the pressure was applied to the boom the augers snappe d together bending & hitting thumb . this bent his thumb back causing a fracture
ee was installing an air slide in the packing house . he passed from the stair to the vibrator's structure to reach the chain of the hoist . the vibrator's structure was energized due to a broken ground wire located inside a metal enclosure . ee received an electrical shock when he touched part of the metal structure . the ground was fixed but few wires were broken
ee states : slipped & jerked neck , stiff
while loading canoe liners 20-30 lbs fromt he ground to the flat bed pu # 264 ee felt a twinge in his back
employee working near edge of highwall fell 90 feet after slipping or stepping in wrong direction .
worker was moving a piece of stone when it fipped and he strained his back .
he unplugged the batteries on the personnel car # 2 before turning the charger off in which it , the plug in , caused a spark . gas from a 6 volt battery arched blowing dirt & debris in his left e ye .
ee was in process moving a 18 '' valve on bow of deck when he tripped over valve he previously moved to that spot , as ee tripped the valve he was moving fell onto his upper right thigh , ee suffered contusions to his right thigh , knee and buttocks , ee has been placed on restricted duty .
at the bunker tail shaft area , mechanics were getting ready to take slack out of `` b '' chain to pull slack when a weld that held the tension arm in place broke . the released tension arm came up through the steps where the victim was standing causing severe laceration to femoral artery in his groin area .
the kuhntown elevator stopped 90-100 ' below the top landing . breaker was re-set and ran in inspection mode to get 16 employees on elevator off . contact nips were replaced and elevator tested several times and cleared for normal operations by msha .
a rock fall occurred at approx 11:43 am in the belt entry at x-cut 30 on the main north . the fall was in the bottom area and was 40 x 20 x 8. the fall will be cleaned up . the plus is 21 + 36. the area was supported with 8 ft double lock bolts .
ee was pulling on a wrench when he felt something pop in the little finger of his right hand . he finished his shift and went to the emergency room the next day where he was diagnosed with a br oken finger .
ee bent down to sort caps and lost footing and struck right knee on the loader bucket . ee did not report the incident until the 13th and went to see a doctor on the 14th and restrictions were given turning bruised knee into a lost time accident .
a fall of roof above the anchorage of the 4ft resin roof bolts occurred in the # 5 intake entry at 30c/c along the # 2 belt . the fall was apx 20'lg x 20'wd x 6'thk . no one was injured during this event . the primary escapeway was blocked & all persons were evacuated outby the location until another primary escapeway could be established . the area was dangered & approaches cribbed .
ee had hung a come-a-long from a shield to lift a relay bar . when ee started taking slack out of the chain , ee looked up & the come-a-long fell & hit ee in the mouth causing a chipped tooth . ee did not miss any work .
employee was trouble shooting in an electrical panel-box with a volt/amp meter probe . the probemay have come in contact with a hot wire and ground wire at the same time , causing sparks and flashes .
operator operating crane , lowered crane with load of rods causing injury to finger of fellow ee .
ee strained mid-back while carrying metal bar upthe stairs .
ee was replacing b-1 screen panel when the panel became wedged in bottom deck . ee jerked on screen , straining his back , lower back . ee continued working for the following 2 weeks . on 7/25/04 ee went to the hospital - pain had increased to the point of unbearable . x-rays were taken : showed bulging disc in l-3 . first day missed was 7/26/04 .
employee was hooking highline into mouse house , 4th piece of cable during a lighting storm ; lightening struck close by coming through cable causing cable to energize and shock him .
helping truck driver pull 35 ' section of tubing from flatbed onto forks of forklift . tubing became unbalanced & started to teeter . employee used shoulder to push tubing back on truck . he heard a pop & felt pain & numbness in l arm & hand . final medical documentation for determination as to whether this was msha recordable wasn't received until 9/15/08 .
ee was walking on rock pile to get some tools & twisted ankle on a rock , causing injury to left ankle . ( report not filed timely due to late receipt of claim ) .
while kneeling down on both knees to weld two plates of steel together , ee felt a sharp pain in his left knee . this incident is being reported september 7 , 2011 which is within 10 days of seeking medical attention .
while pressure washing truck ee tripped over hose & fell reached out to break fall with left hand & grabbed or touched hot muffler on pressure washer
employee parked loader on area of very uneven ground after heavy rains . when dismounting from loader he placed left foot on the ground , slid on slippeery ground and twisted foot at the same time .
employee was using a 5 ' long bar to lock a cam on a rail car door when ee lost footing and fell forward catching self with ee's hands on the ground . the rock bar fell to the tracks and leveraged the end up striking ee on the chin . ee received a 2 '' laceration requiring 5 stitches to close .
ee was opening a door underground so a tractor could go through . the tractor operator struck the door and the ee's hand was smashed between the door and the rib . the ee went to the doctor , x-rays were negative and no stitches were required . ee was placed on restricted duty 5/13/05 .
cutting belt with utility knife blade broke cut right hand had to have 3 sitches .
loader tire on the left front of 992 cat loader ran over rock & puncture tire and the air from tire blew on the ground cvausing loose material on the ground to blow about 40 ' and hit the face and arm of the driver in the 769 rock truck .
inability of roof support to control stata , fall occurred on m.e . travelway at approx 3:00 am . fall is approx 20'long , 16'wide , & 7'high above coal seam . this at the # 148 x-cut intersection .
ee was removing sludge/ water pump from basementof unloading station . he picked the pump up to place it on a 2 wheel cart . the pump weighed approx 200 lbs . in the process of lifting the pump , he strained his upper left arm and shoulder . he was sent for a medical evaluation , and started physical therapy to rehabilitate his shoulder .
employee stated that ee had pulled onto the feeder to dump the shuttle car and stepped out of the buggy to turn seat around without setting the park brake on the center drive shuttle car . the car rolled back and caught lower right leg ( calf ) between the shuttle car and the mine rib .
cleaning surface of rotary valve with wire wheel grinder when ee got metal particles in both eyes .
east mains # 16 block # 10 heading 4-way intersection 7 ft high x 20 ft long x 20 ft wide . type of support . 6 ft resin bolts , 6 '' x16 '' plates . roof mats area dangered off , additional supports set around fall .
while lifting a pipe with two other employees , employee tripped and struck left knee on the ground . did not qualify as msha reportable until 9/23/05 when employee was placed on light duty .
in order to save time and effort ee crossed a pipe line . he did not have enought step to clear and cross safety , and tripped and fell . he shoulder have walked around the line until a crossing was in place . ee placed on restricted duty on 6-2-04 .
ee was loading belt structure at the longwall headgate area into a scoop car , smashed finger between 2 pieces of belt structure . there was no damage or impairment to the mining operation or th e equipment . the injury did not involve ccompliance , job skills , proficiency , training or attitude . protective items ( gloves ) were not worn , protective devices were not a factor .
ensley central service employee 01-03226 was drilling holes in steel floor at switch house at calera quarry 01-00050 ; drill caught and twisted left and right wrists . employee was applying a large amount of force onto a drill without enough leverage to keep drill under control .
( 3 employees were injured in this accident . ) ee was assisting in the installation of a replacement deck on shaker when the deck frame suddenly slid into place , striking ee in the pelvic area ( surgical repair required ) .
iw was stndng on the lft side of the trlr . the drvr chked the side mirror , he saw iw begin to walk away from the trlr . the drvr then noticed a pu truck approaching on the rt side . the drvr looked to see that the pu was not pulng in front of him . he then began to pull fwd . while pulng fwd he rechckd his mirrors and saw iw falling to the grnd . the drvr stopped the truck .
employee's right knee was injured july 99 ; afterreturning to work in jan. 2000 he has complainedthat his knee hurt ; 5/1/00 he was scheduled withtreating physician for evaluation .
releasing brake wheel by hand on railroad car when ee felt pain in right arm/shoulder . injury occurred on 11/14/2017 and ee continued to work until 2/22/2018 when ee missed 3 days . ( feb 26 , 27 , & 28 , 2018 ) and returned on 3/1/2018 on modified duty with restrictions . at this time incident became reportable .
a fork struck ee on the inside of his left ankle causing a contusion .
ee was using a pipe wrench to loosen a pipe fitting . as he pushed down on the wrench with his right arm he felt a pop in his rib cage ont he right side .
ee was walking down from parking lot when he slipped and fell on ice . ee reported to his supervisor and was checked by errt members . ee was transported to the clinic . ee was placed on restrictions and released back to work .
while loading belt structure into mantrip he mashed his left little finger between two rollers requiring 7 sutures
a roof fall was discovered in the # 3 main 2500 ' outby the section in a parallel entry . fall location is # 3 main # 5 xc # 10 entry . no impairment or damage to persons , equipment or systems .
ee was helping clean line away for hole being drilled for infusion into pillars . reached down & wire connecting steel to chuck cut wrist . 7 stitches to close wound .
ee sprained left ankle as he was moving a 55 gallon drum with a dolley . he placed his right foot on wheel axle and positioned left foot back to get leverage . started to pull on dolley handles and then rolled his left ankle . on 06/02/2010 , ee placed on restricted duty .
while carving out a notch in wood for a roof rafter , the knife slipped from ee's rt . hand striking the lt. middle finger .
ee was loading glue on bolter when ee hip popped out of place and back into place pinching nerve . ee was released to full duty following medical examination on 4.10.18. a follow up appointment on 5.1.18 resulted in ee placed on restricted duty at that time .
ee ( truck driver ) climbing into truck when door handle dislodged from door and left knee struck rung of ladder . ee did not inform us he needed medical attention we found out after he went to medical help on about 8-26-03 when bills arrivedat office .
while installing mill screen plates , ee was struck in the face/mouth with sledge hammer .
ee was cleaning materials from a piece of equipment , when ee pulled her back . ee filled out a 1st aid report . on the following tuesday 9/16/03 , ee went to dr. the dr. told her to stay off work for 1 day 9/17/03 . ee returned to work 9/18/03 .
ee was operating the # 4 shuttle car . he was pulling off the feeder , one break inby the power center at spad # 8316. ee hit a pothole causing him to bounce up off his seat . when he came back dow n his tailbone struck the frame of the seat . ee was diagnosed with a contusion to the tailbone .
ee fell while hooking cable to loader bucket . he suffered a contusion to the right arm and head .
operator backed the 8000 gallon water tuck 320 yards down a 10 % road and when he attempted to stop , the brakes failed . he steered the truck into the highwall to avoid hitting a 100 ton haul truck or 992 loader , which caused the loaded water truck to roll over . the driver did not sustain any injuries . damage occurred to the cab of the water truck .
employee sustained a lower back strain and was placed on restrictions . she was removing a loading spout from a railcar when she felt a pop and pull in her lower back .
ee was removing the brake drum off left rear axle of grease truck when it fouled mashing left index finger .
ee was lowering lid of bulk truck when he noticed the seal was about to fall into the truck . he released the lid to grab the seal and the lid continued to fall , crushing his finger .
a non-injury roof fall occured on 10 west lw tailgate between the can crib and the last shield the fall measured 5 ' high , 5 ' wide and for a distance of 5 feet the tailgate travel way was blocked and blockage plan inplemented .
ee was setting a slurry pump at # 4 takeup when ee's hand slipped . the pump hit his left hand & 2 middle fingers .
emp was getting into loader slipped on sill falling into cab striking head & rt shoulder on door frame .
employee was found to have sts during annual hearing test
ee was packing up his service truck when the rear hatch caught a gust of wind . the gust of wind caused the lid of the service truck to fall down onto ee head causing a laceration .
while walking down a bank of pit material ee slipped and struck his hand right on a sharp rock causing a small laceration to his little finger .
an unintentional roof fall was found on the 002 section at intersection spad # 327. the roof fall occurred in the # 1 intersection on panel 1a and measured about 8 ' in height and approx . 20 ' wide .
ee was moving a piece of scrap metal by hands to get to the boom truck that was needed in the pit . while moving the metal , it cut his third finger on his left hand causing him to go to the hos pital for 2 stitches .
while ee was helping a mechanic replace a broken track pin on an excavator , the mechanic was driving the pin into the track with a large hammer when a hammer from the pin broke loose and struc k him in the left side of the head around the temple area .
employee was cutting a conveyor belt with a utility knife and the knife slipped and cut left arm . ee went to a physician and they glued the laceration closed .
ee was using a piece of angle iron instead of a hammer to secure the lid of a 55 gallon drum . he struck his rt . small finger with the angle iron . this resulted in a fracture to the tip of the finger and damage to the nail .
ee slipped and fell while going through an entrydoor in the maintenance shop . he bruised his r. knee and on the evening of 11-27-01 he was admitted to hospital where he had to have medi- cal procedures to remove infection that had set up . this ee is diabetic .
ee was changing wires in breaker panel for the simplicity screen when electrical wire came in contact with another wire or metal box creating a ball of fire . heat from ball of fire caused burns .
employee was desending stairs and slipped on tread dut to rain and muddy shoes .
a roof fall occurred in the 3n3 , # 45 crosscut , between # 8 and # 9 entries . the fall measured approx 25 ' long , 18 ' wide and 6 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 ' fully grouted tension rebar bolts .
k-501 & k-502 belts kicked out . employee went toinvestigate . at the feed floor smoke was coming out of stone chute . i-d fan was increased , removing smoke . later ee complained of chest pains . as a precaution he was immediately transported for medical treatment due to his asmatic condition . no others needed treatment . no lost time .
employee stated he was at slickline on sm roadway to get load of gravel . as he turned to walk away after using telephone the bottom part of rib rolled out and hit foot .
ee reported alledged carpal tunnel syndrome on 12-19-06. he was seen by specialist on 2/14/07 that determined he needed surgery . he had surgery for the right hand on 4/12/07 and will have the left hand done on 4/26/07 .
stated : employee was coming through mandoor by mn belt toward slope bottom . one large equipment airlock door , toward the slope bottom , was open . as she stepped through , someone opened the mandoor on the other large equipment airlock door . she lost her grip on the door and it mashed her arm between the door and the frame . she is still off work and is a lost time incident .
employee was attempting to move a light plant . ee fingers were between the hitch and truck when the jack failed the trailer fell pinching ee fingers .
while moving a section of 6 '' aluminum water line , the pipe rolled and the tip of his left index finger got caught between the pipe and a section of belt structure . the accident happened because the employee had failed to secure the pipe . the ee had been properly trained and did not violate any rules or regulations . the ee has a good safety attitude .
ee was diagnosed with carpal tunnel of both wrists and will have surgery on 11/28/01 .
the employee was changing drill bits . ee was hitting the lock ring of the drill bit with a hammer . a piece of metal came off the hammer head and struck the employee in the back of right leg . the metal penetrated the skin . this required medical attention to remove the metal .
according to ee he said he was lifting a piece of steel used to fabricate a chute on the 2 deck screen when he twisted and felt a sharp pain to his back ( ) lower ) . he reported a sore back as th e reason he was going home to the scale person , who relayed his leaving to this office .
ee had just pulled cable up barge . cable was tight under cleat . cable popped out from under cleat . hitting him in the right upper mid leg .
unintentional roof fall ( 20 ' inby spad # 384 ) from 6'to 9 ' 18'wide 50'long
ee and one co-worker were attempting to change the loader attachment from bucket to forks . bucket got stuck , so ee started hitting it with a hammer . bucket fell on both ee's feet .
ee notified on supervisor on 04/16/15 of wrist pain that had increased over time . emg studies done on 04/27/15 positive for carpal tunnel in the left wrist , and the ee referred to an orthopedic surgeon . appt with orthopedic surgeon set for 05/06/15 . ee had carpal tunnel surgery on 5/7/15 . he was unable to work following the surgery until 6/9/15 .
ee was stepping around other employee when he lost his balance , misplaced his left foot and fell to the floor . in falling to the floor , ee grabbed the other employee , bringing him to floor with him . misplaced foot was broken .
shoceling belt and felt pain in left shoulder , back , and left hip . received report of injury late .
employee was repairing a tooth face which had broken off of a bucket of a 4600 manitowoc dragline , while making an adjustment on his welder he tripped on a rock and fell down and landed on the rock with his left knee .
an unplanned roof fall occurred just after finishing the # 5 lift of a five 5 cut partial pillar recovery plan . as the cont miner was being trammed from the lift the roof inby crosscut set down onto ripper fouling machine . fall was located one crosscut inby spad 1446 of the 5 entry measuring approx . 20 ' wide , length and height could not be determined .
ee was welding overhead . after he finished he was in the process of removing his welding hood and putting his hard hat on when some debris had entered his right eye .
ee was walking up the steps inside the office when he twisted his foot causing a fracture to a bone in his right foot .
employee was instructed to install `` snow poles '' at road edges using slide hammer or jackhammer . ee elected to drive post into ground using loader bucket . the post slipped and loader bucket str uck employee's left leg causing torn flesh .
unintentional roof fall in the 5th east panel occurred at crosscut located at 1380 ft survey station between entries 3 and 4. the fallen material measured 20 x 13 x 6 feet . the support methaod used was 6 ft tension rebar roof bolts .
ee was exiting the mechanic truck bed , when his foot slipped , causing him to strike his mouth on a hydraulic hose .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by the mine examiner performing weekly examinations in the 1st south , # 4 entry , between cross cuts 6 and 7. the fall is approximately 18 ' w x 60 ' l x 6.5 ' h. the fall is in an inactive area of the mine .
ee is a locomotive brakeman and was walking along railroad tracks to switch tracks . stepped on patch of ice and fell to knees . investigating use of liquid deicers near switches . salt doesn't work well .
7 mains 2 , 7 entry , 34 block , mmu 002. support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , screen . 14 ft wide x 8 ft long x 6 ft high fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall and clean up plan developed and posted at fall site .
ee was getting tools out of the tool box on his mechanics truck when he hit his elbow on the tool box
training exercise - moving cable on boom . ee climbed 6 ' ladder to change cable on boom sheave . fell off ladder while descending ; hit front of head on ladder ( or ? ) , landed on back on ground . unresponsive , but awake when ambulance arrived . refused treatment . went to er next day ; admitted ( 3 days ) . prior back problems aggravated by fall .
he was roof bolting , installing 4 ' fully grouted roof bolts ; he was lifting a roof bolt to install it into a drilled hole when he felt pain in his left shoulder . he did not seek medical atten tion until 5/2/00 . scheduled for surgery 8/9/00
brian lester , mine foreman was traveling down roadway # 5 entry and spotted a fall in # 6 entry , 1 break inby spad # 189. brian made sure that there were no other hazards and that all men were accounted for ... both federal and state offices were contacted at appx 1:40 am -- the fall was 20 x 20 by 5ft thick . the fall was cribbed at the intersection
ee had been working on machine when he felt pain in right forearm . pain has progressed and treatment was sought one week later .
ee was working with other crew members taking a motor w/structure to another location when they de-railed the motor . they were working to jack the motor up to get it back on rail when he stepped off of the flat car . he states his knee `` popped '' .
injured was working outside north door of the new welding shop . while hitting a lip shroud for a shovel bucket with a 8 lb . hammer , a small sliver of metal came off the hammer and hit injured in his left thigh become lodge in his thigh .
ee alleges a back strain from attempting to install a pump . he continued to work until 7-10-02 when he began to miss work . the mine is now closed as of 7-15-02 .
a roof fall occurred in the 1 south , # 8 entry in one-third the intersection of cross-cut # 36 and extending in the pillarline 6ft . towards cross-cut # 37. the fall measured approximately 12ft . x 19ft . x 6ft.-9ft . six foot tension rebar bolts and 9 foot mega bolts were used to support the area . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall .
employee was pulling a vacuum hose when it got stuck between crossbeams . he yanked the hose which `` slingshotted '' towards him striking and chipping his front tooth .
ee was mounting a dozer & felt a pulling & pain in his left lower back . he continued to work & the pain became steadily worse , radiating down the left leg . he was transported to er with a diag nosis of acute low back strain with left radicular pain .
the ee was working the loadout sampler skirt boards . he had dropped one side and had loosened all the bolts on the other side , except for one . he had a socket and racket on the last bolt , when it broke . his right hand was propelled backwards and struck another bolt , puncturing his hand . he received 5 stitches .
the injured and his partner were under the 109 locomotive truck installing bearings . there was a lack of communication between the two workers which caused one of the bearings to fall and stri ke the injured in the forhead . the bearing weighed 35 lbs and caused a cut to the injury's forehead .
ee alleges while loading rock into a feeder he dumped bucket and shifted into reverse , when load shifted it jarred him , hurting his neck . follow up testing confirmed injury .
rider seam pulled bolts out of main roof because bolt failed to anchor to main roof . occurred in return on right side of section at spad # 528 .
ee was working on s3 manlift , when he stepped on the latch to unlock the manbasket , it fell causing ee to lose , hia balance , he was able to stay on the basket fro a short distance , but the fel l about 10 feet to the ground landing on his shoulder and head , transported to challis clinic for exam and stitches .
employee was running the work boat at the dredge when the dredge anchor cable broke . he was pulling approximately 300 ' long cable onto the deck of the work boat . he pulled both shoulders . he d eclined to go to the doctor . on 12/30/02 he was working on the belts at the plant and pulled his shoulders again . his arms & hand started getting numb so he was sent to the doctor 5/23/03 .
ee was assisting with the installion of a top training roller on the surface stacker belt when he experienced pain in his lower back . this injury occurred 12/17/04 , but he did not start to lose time until the end of 12/04 .
employee was pulling bolter cable while another employee was tramming bolter out of rm 2l in panel sb01 . he was pulling cable back with hot stick and turned didn't see where he was going at th is time . the reel started taking up the slack , jerking the hot stick out of his hands .
while welding , ee felt something in eye . at time felt it was some dirt but due to continued discomfort had eye treated following day and a piece of metal was found and removed .
employee was assisting in the installation of steel arch supports , using simplex jack to help level the legs . the arch support was in a bind and a bolt in a tierod was loosed when the support was free it shifted and struck the employee on the right arm .
employee was lowering a six inch vacuum hose that cintained kiln feed rock when he felt his shoulder pop . too much weight in hose .
two employees were lifting a stack of wooden planks ; when injured turned he felt a sharp pain inhis lower back .
employee was descending an overcast ramp when ee slipped and fell to the ground injuring right leg . ee was diagnosed with a fractured tibia in right leg .
mechanic was working on a ballformer . while one mechanic was lying on the ground making adjustments to the roller bearing bolts , the injured mechanic was using a track bar to leverage the support roller bearing into the proper position . the track bar slipped off the roller bearing striking the mechanic on the ground just above his right eye causing a laceration .
at the time of the incident ee was exiting a service truck . as he stepped down on to the rough ground his right foot buckled under his weight .
we were using a scoop , wire rope and a pull block to pull conveyer belt together when a chain holding the pull block broke letting the wire rope loose . the wire rope pinned ee against rib and bruised him .
operator was using the excavator to pull a rock back onto the bench from the outslope . a section of the rock broke off causing the excavator to jerk backwards . this caused the operator's neck to have pain due to the whiplash effect .
the mine experienced a roof fall in the north mains return , # 1 entry , at 10 blk . the fall occurred in the intersection and the dimensions were 18ft . by 18ft . the fall was found by a supervisor and no injuries occurred from this incident .
mecahnic was replacing filters in the rotoclone on the m3 drill . one filter had come apart and was caught on another filter and would not drop out . the mechanic took the nut off the second fil ter and both filters dropped out and struck him on the right hand causing a cut on his ittle finger .
employee was reconnecting the infeed pipe on s-112 screener.pulling pipe to clamp it off.pipe got hung on screener lid . pipe came loose suddenly.employee's hand was mashed between the top and bottom parts of the slide gate flange . mashed left middle finger.required sutures .
while watering the roads u/g , ee hit a rough part of the road and jarred his back .
they were running gravel to the surge and a shut plugged up . they were cleaning up the rock and gravel . ee twisted his back .
the ee alleges that he was in the process of staightening a roof bolt after it was placed into the hole , when the bolt twisted , causing the sprain to his lower back .
ee's by-passed safety devices on a raised cab , which created an unsafe act . additionally , the injured ee attempted a single man lift where a team lift is applicable .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 2 gas mine at spad # 1355 on the belt entry that measured 58 ' long x 19 ' wide x 14 ' high . no injuries reported . the area was developed on 2-1-09 .
ee was cleaning and inspecting the shop grease pump which had been leaking grease around the piston . he took the guards off to find the leak , when the piston grabbed the rag in his hand . when attempting to free the rag the piston caught his finger , lacerating a 2 '' long piece of skin .
ee was removing rock from lolo and his finger was struck cutting finger .
while emp was carrying stone a piece broke in half and fell onto foot .
ruptured disc or ruptured muscle in his back when lifing a used screen panel onto a forklift .
employee was working on top of a railcar when his safety harness lanyard got caught between his body and a gate . he lost his balance and tried to step onto an access platform . his right foot s lipped between the platform and the edge of the railcar . he fell and sustained a fracture of the right tibia and right fibula . employee is losing time .
employee was dismounting his drill , when his foot slipped & he hit his right knee on the stepof the ladder ; he said he was ok ; later his kneebegan to swell , he went to dr. the next day ; 1st lost time for this accident was on 6/6/2000 .
employee was mounting motor , motor slipped and caught employees leg on the knee area , causing dislocating knee and brusing .
ee was in process of installing/replacing bearing on shaft of idler roller ( snub roller ) near discharge roller when chain broke which allowed belt roller to fall , pinning injured's hand between shaft and bearing housing .
employee was walking and slipped while carrying a part and when ee fell the part landed on right hand and cut it . ee was taken to the hospital and received 8 stitches
injured empliyee was attempting to park mantrip in a charging station . left front tire struck rib line , while attempting to back up from rib-steering wheel turned abruptly in oposite direction striking employee on ungloved hand .
injured is an employee of tnt drilling . he was attmepting to use the restroom in the woods behind the pit . as he bent over , a copperhead snake bit him on the butt . he was taken to the e.r . where a doctor determined he was not injected with venom . he returned to work that same afternoon .
drill operator was attempting to replace the deck wrench cylinder connecting pin and keeper ( cab side ) which connects the yolk of the cylinder to the deck wrench frame . the deck wrench cylinde r is hydraulic controlled . ee attempted to operate the cylinder control lever inside of cab door with his right hand while reaching to align the cylinder yolk with the deck wrench frame for c
blocks that support the plant were rotten . plant was bouncing . even tho ' the shaker was off , the bouncing caused a rock to fall into running crusher . the jaw projected the rock out of the hopper and the rock hit ee 20 ' from the plant on the ground .
ee was doing normal cleanup with a shovel when the lower back pain began .
the enlow elevator was down for more than 30 minutes because of a broken door latch assembly . there was no entrapment .
while moving a piece of wood to cover a hole , ee got his finger caught between the wood and a drop box ( cut on right index finger ) .
an unplanned roof fall occurred 1 brk inby spad # 42 in the # 7 entry . fall measured 40 ' x 18 ' x 6 ' . no injuries were reported . the area was developed on 5/19/08 .
as employee was lifting the miner cable he developed pain in his back . he is presently waiting for a mri .
ee was working to abate an electrical violation on a garage door located in the shop . he set up a 12 ' extension ladder to climb up and remove ceiling tiles . as he was descending , the ladder began to slide . ee fell approx 6 ft to the ground . he was transported to the hospital where x-ray revealed a fractured left metatarsal .
a piece of coal fell over the rib screen , hitting the ee on the left knee , re-injured the knee he had hurt at home the week before
ee wastaking twist out of winch cable when he got his hand caught in shive block , cutting four fingers off on left hand .
while cutting hand rail , injured crawled out to reach it bewcause it got hung up on i-beam . when the end of the rail broke off , injured twisted his wrist .
ee was walking between work locations , slipped on ice and strained his left knee
member was tightening a bolt on the side of a d-9 dozer , leaning over the side of the stableizing bar when he felt pain in the upper right rib area . he was scheduled off work until 8-13-01 and that is the time the lost time began .
ee slipped and fell while walking around his bolt machine and caught his left small finger on the drill steel tray .
while walking on southside of cr-1 , ee tripped over a donut laying on the deck and almost fell through the hole in the platform where the v-belt board is to sit
east 3 , 44 block # 4 heading , 4-way mmu 007 , 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 12 ft high . type of support : cable bolts 8 '' x8 '' plates . left resin 8 '' x8 '' plates . roof mats wire screen acstjacks . fall dang er off , additional roof support set around fall .
employee moved roof bolter outby face to rebolt in the section . horse back fell out causing fatal injury .
the ee mentioned was injured while making an adjustment to the fine side of the pioneer triple rolls . a threaded hydraulic fitting apparently damaged at previous time blew out of the hydraulic adjusting ram & the hose it was attached to hit ee in the leg & blew oil into his face & right eye .
employee had exited out of his truck to perform a post shift vehicle inspection . he stepped on the edge of pavement and gravel meet ; his ankle twisted . x-rays revealed a fracture of the left ankle . note : this accident was attempted to be submitted to msha on 03/11/2013 . there were some problems with the network and the accident report did not go through .
contractor vehicle eletrical fire
ee bent over to handle a 5 '' ( dia . ) bulk line . he felt low back pain when attempting to straighten up .
employee was installing a high voltage plug in the back of the section power center . ee was having trouble tightening the plug all the way and ee struck the high voltage plug wrench with a hammer to assist in tightening it . ee accidentally hit hand between the thumb and pointer finger . ee received two stitches .
5 right 5 south , puttig in alpine miner , using chain to lift , using bar to align , chain broke and hit man's left middle and index fingers .
employee is retired from a shipping manager position . ee states this is an on-going problem . filed a claim 8/3/09 . ee had a hearing evaluation on 5/2/2016 and states has a hearing loss . employee retired on 3/13/2016 .
roof fall , 2a belt # 5 entry spad # 1851. size of fall : length 20 ft , width 20 ft , height 5 ft .
no equipment running at the time , conditions good/setting spads before mining coal started .
ee strained back while pulling wires underneath a floor .
ee stated that he was opening a can of welding rods and cut his little finger on lt. hand .
ee was lifting a set of portable torches weighing 20 lbs . was twisting to put on tractor .
ee was cutting a wear plate in primary feeder . another ee was approx . 4 ' away using a 3lb . hammer to drive bag under plate , when the swing hammer slipped from grip striking ee over his eye .
employee was jackhammering debris when the chisel point dropped through the grate and caused the jackhammer to jerk back .
employee slipped ( and fell ) on ice , causing lower back strain . recived prescription medication and had reportedly missed 1 day of work before being off on rotation . subsequently learned treating physician's documentation revealed no work restrictions nor time loss . reclassify the injury as medical only , per discussion with vacaville msha rep .
ee developed stiff neck while driving a forklift .
while trying to set an anchor pin for the highwall miner , the pin shifted , pinning the miner's hand between the pin and a box on the miner .
the ee alleges that he was repairing electrical cables of the conveyor , having turned off the breakers , in order to fix them and wrap the cables with tape , when he turned on the breakers , he r eceived an electrical impact , and was thrown to the ground and got three burns on his left hand ( thumb , index and middle fingers . )
ee was removing a bag from the packer when the bag felt slightly stuck . he pulled harder and felt a pop/snap in his abdomen and then felt pain .
whike traveling down road , drill steel started bouncing when ee tried to hold them in place he caught his finger between the drill steel smashing his right finger . ee was taken to er and co. dr. was diagnosed with a laceration and fracture to right ring finger .
rock fell from the rib and rib bolt , striking eeon the lower back and hip area .
employee was standing , looking at pressure gauge , when fork lift driver was backing up . employee turned into fork lift , hitting his right knee on counter wt .
while walking along the walkway of the fletcher walkthrough crawler cddr-17 dual head roof bolter in the st leo section the injured miner rolled ankle and fell down , resulting in a dislocated ankle and foot .
customer on mine site to get a load of gravel but before doing so he raised the bed of his truck to clear it of debris . the bed was up approx 18 '' to 24 '' when a problem with the hoisting mechan ism caused the injured to reach in between the raised truck body and the truck fram ( the truck body was not blocked against movement ) when the truck bed fell on his arm .
ee noticed pain in his leg . the doctor ordered an mri & has determined the pain is caused by a re-occurance of a herniated disc , an injury thatoccured on the job in 1998 when ee stepped in a hole & twisted his back . he will undergo a fusion on 1/1/01 & is expected to be out of work for three to six months .
employee was removing `` metal floors '' from # 7 feeder when he felt pain in his back . note : rx prescribed for pain
field maintenance technician was using 2 1/2 '' bolts to attach the propel transmission to the carbody of a shove . the hydraulic torque wrench slipped off the nut being tightened and struck him in the mouth lacerating his lip . he received 5 sutures in his lip .
ee replacing drag link . pin was installed-new link pivoted on pin and struck finger .
the employee ran out of hog rings in the clip gun . when the employee sat the gun down , the clip gun went off and severed the tip of employee's l index finger .
ee was granted an award from wv workers ' compensation division for occupational disease ( hearing loss ) .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the 5400 ' mark of entry # 6 of the 2nd north panel . this is mmu 003-0 unit 3 at 88 x-cut . this happened over the holiday weekend , and was found by the preshift examiner at 11:25 pm .
injured was struck by a piece of draw rock approximately 3 ' x 4'x4 '' . injured was taken to hospital for medical treatment and was discovered ee suffered fractures in ee's back and foot .
received a cwp diagnosis . no % disability at this time .
loading pipe onto pullcart in elevator bottom , cart moved a little pipe slipped and jammed finger against wall .
a unplanned roof fall occurred in the 3rd east panel , spad # 2+50 , entry # 4. the fall measured approximately 18'w x 18'l x 8 ' h .
east 2 , 23 block , 3 entry mmu 006 . 17'wide x 60 ' long x 12'high . support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
ee was welding on dozer blade . dozer blade was blocked up and blade fell from blocks , hitting ee's right knee and injuring ankle .
lifting top structure and installing in belt line on beltmove and pulled something in right shoulder .
cut left wrist walking through mandoor . four sutures .
walking in steal lay down area , rock rolled and twisted right ankle . refused medical treatment until 4-25-00. returned to full duty . scheduled follow up appt on 4-28. on 4-28 he was given mod ified duty .
turning crank handle on coarse sand belt to reposition chute . handle was not properly latched , broke loose and struck ee in right side .
i received a call from security had notified the mantrip bus was on fire . the security guard had stopped near the bus to eat lunch when ee noticed flames come out from under the hood . the job was idle no and employees were injured . this was an inactive part of the job where employees parked .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on 7 miner section , # 2 entry , spad # 11666. it measured 60 ' long x 18 ' wide x 12 ' high .
employee was pulling on an air hose and slipped in the middle of the haul road and landed on his left hip causing a contusion . on 9-27-2010 saw doctor and was referred for an mri . mri was given on 10-20-2010 and results were obtained on 10-27-2010 and were negative . this is now a lost time reportable injury .
ee was working in inert atmosphere while wearing mine rescue apparatus building temporary seal .
a roof fall measuring 35'l x 25'w x 9.5'h occurred 1 break inby spad # 9965 in the 1st lt panel off or the 5th rt panel in the belt entry approximately 2,030 ' outby 002 mmu ( # 1 section ) . area was bolted with 6 ' torque tension bolts and 10 ' cable bolts .
north mains 70 block # 3 heading 4-way intersection mmu-003 type of support : 6 ft resin bolts , 6 '' by 16 '' plates , roof mats fall dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall .
ee went to help another c9oworker in removing wire meshe off of a scoop bucket , the coworker yanked on the mesh and caught victim's finger between the mesh . cause of this injury was lack of co mmunication . compliance with rules/regs was not a factor , protective equip a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equip/systems not a factor .
ee was working on utilities above his head when he experienced back pain . he did not seek medical treatment until 4-22-02. reportable for treatment prescribed by physician .
ee was helping another ee unload a sheet of floor grading ( 36 '' wide x 20 ' long ) off the bed of a pallet truck . ee lost control of the grading with his left arm and the full weight of the gradi ng came off the truck and , according to ee , his right arm absorbed the full weight of the grading . the other ee still had his end of the grading supported . ee did not report the incident unti
he had been standing all day running the plant when he turned wrong & hurt his back . he went to the dr. on 6/10/13 the dr. said it was a strain and employee went back to work . he was still having some trouble 7/11/13 they scheduled an mri . he seen surgeon on 7/22/13 & decided he didn't want surgery . he then went back on 8/8/13 & he decided to have the surgery on 8/28/13 .
adjusting rollson coal mill and strained rt . shoulder .
slipped on mud & water while carrying 36 '' pipe wrench . ee believes this is a reovr . of 11/08/01 injury . saw chiro . for treatment . received notice of chiro treatment on 7/23/02 .
employee was hauling rock when highwall fell hitting cab shield on rock truck throwing employee against driver door .
employee was shoveling out a conveyor pit . employee got a lumbar strain from bending and twisting . this employee works for a temporary agency by the name of cfsi .
the maintenance crew was moving and placing a piece of hdpe pipe . in the process of setting the pipe , which had apparently caught on something , the pipe released , which catapulted the pipe into the employee , striking employee in the chest and pinning employee against a conveyor frame . employee was diagnosed with fractured left clavicle/shoulder .
ee was at the store to pick ( 2 ) 12v equipment batteries when he picked it up , he said his back popped , and took him to his knees .
ee was building stopping and a block fell from top of stopping and fell on ee's left hand .
worker was standing on level surface pulling on rope to cover load with tarp . the rope/tarp connection broke and worker fell backwards , landing on his back and striking his head on gravel , res ulting in several small cuts to head and one on elbow . worker later complained of dizziness and dr. diagnosed blood clot at back of brain .
on 2/6/03 , injured was removing a roller frame from a dozer in pit 5 and felt a sharp pain in the back of his neck . he left work around 10p.m . on 2/7/03 he contacted the safety dept . & was tr ansported to the center of occupational health & examined by a dr. and diagnosed with a trapeziusstrain . he was released to return to work with restrictions of no reaching above chest level .
employee was washing out the # 2 dissolver tank when he came in contact with a sharp piece of metal causing a laceration to his left forearm just above the wrist . this injury required sutures .
a foreman was holding a transition tube so the scoop operator could tram under it and then he could drop it into scoop bucket . the scoop bucket hit one of the tube ends and the foreman s left hand was caught between the tube and the fan .
fall of roof north b section . continuation of fall reported on 5/10/06 . b-entry north b section . 17 '' wide 6 to 8 feet high difficult to determine length . could be 3 seperate falls or 1 solid fall approx . 18 '' long . grey shale top 6 '' resin 12 '' cable bolts 20 ' cable bolts between entry .
hammering idler pulley on excavator ( at 320 lbs ) excavtor
ee was heading down the main in a truck when he apparently hit a bump causing his cap lamp to dislodged from his hard hat and strike him in the mouth .
he was standing behind a kubota putting a tire in the bed , the tire caught on the corner & he felt a pop . we received a note from the doctor to place him on restricted duty on oct. 1 , 2014
employee alledges while working on the north side of # 3 tower , loosening bolts on the screen deck and pulling a wrench toward his body , he felt a pop in his right shoulder . the pain continued for the remainder of the day , increasing through the night . he went to the clinic the next day where he was given medication to take every 4 - 6 hours as well as restricted work duties .
the ee shanked a striker bar took striker bar off of the longhole drill machine and the 30 feet of drill rod fell out of the hole and struck the ee on the left hand . required 5 stitches .
exchange used an impact gun [ approx . wt . 60-70 # ] for about 35 min . causing vibration and felt a sharp pain to lower left back and both legs gave out causing him to stumble but not fall . ee c/o pain to lower left back radiating down left leg , ee taken off work by his doctor .
employee was welding in blunger . after his shift , both eyes reddened , became teary and painfull and vision blurred . employee saw eye doctor and was diagnosed with kerato conjunctivitis secondary to welding arc . he was given prescription eye drops and anti-inflammatory .
while working off a step ladder , ee pulled a piece of conduit and twisted ladder causing it to fall and ee fell on top of it .
roof fall on head gate of 5 north longwall ( 021-0 ) panel at 100+43 . fall is from outby tip of headgate shield to crusher . fall is approx . 20 ' long and 12 ' high . rib to rib in entry . no injurie s to any miners .
a coal chute cone , the cone slipped on a comealong causing it to drop about 2 '' in height . the ' other two comealongs held the cone from moving
while bolting , a rock fell from the mine roof & struck employee's arm ( l ) . this required sutures .
ee rec 'd 2nd deg chemical burns on top of both forearms as a result of contact with caustic-ldaden clay . he was cleaning clay out of the vacuumcaniser on the mbc extruder vacuum line . the cla y got on his arms while cleaning it out but he washed his arms with water after completing thejob . later that evening he noticed water blistersforming on both forearms where he had contacted
while cleaning up and handling heavy metal screens , anvils and slingers , during the process of the day , the ee's shoulder became painful with crunching and popping sounds . accident did not become reportatble until 5/24/07 , when ee sought medical attention .
ee injured his right great toe in the company shower . he continued to work 2 1/2 wks latter it was still bothering him he went to see the dr x rays show a small fracture .
while changing anvils on a vsi crusher he strained his lower back .
employee was walking from mantrip to miner in # 4 heading , hit head against top and fell injuring neck and back .
ee was attempting to pull an empty 5-gallon hydraulic can out of the frozen ground . as he was pulling on the handle of the can , one end of the handle broke loose from the can and cut his little finger ( 6 stitches required ) . ee was wearing a pair of insulated leather gloves at the time of the incident .
ee states she was swatting at mosquitoes when this incident occurred . ee was performing a pre-operation inspection of recovery pit pump . as she approached motor disconnect switch she slipped i n a puddle of slimes . she states she did not fall but momentarily lost her footing . she complained of back pain a few hours later . she was seen by company dr. and placed on restrictions .
ee was climbing down the back of a ladder on a loader when he missed the bottom step and fell to the concrete floor .
right index finger was fractured while tighting bolt on a crusher . swinging a 15 lb . sledge hammer and caught finger between handle and crusher bolt .
ee was walking by the blowby hose while water was coming out of it after a new bit had been put on . waer quit coming out and a small amount or air came out like trapped air in a water line tha t was turned on after water had been shut off . this caused hose to pull loose hitting him on his left leg bruising it .
injured slipped & fell onto his right elbow & right shoulder . he continued to work until 5/17/00 , at which time he went to the dr & was told to take time off to allow for healing to take place .
a new ee hired as a laborer was cleaning and shoveling around crushing plant and strained his lower back .
employee was a passenger in a mantrip . the trolley pole was dislodged from the trolley wire and struck him on the left side of the head . accident occurred on the oakdale bottom .
employee was un-stopping chute at sampler . piece of coal was lodged between chute and sweep arm . when sweep arm broke face piece of coal flew out and hit ee in left eye . did not have glasses
while helping to clean up build up around return belt pulley , as ee pulled up on the pry bar injured worker felt a shooting pain in groin area . injured worker has an internal hernia as diagnosed by physician .
rock fall ; in main return on belt 2a , 20 ' x 70 ' x 5 ' high . no equipment involved , no ventilation affected . msha & omsl notified , will rehab the area ; clean up and install additional support .
ee was beating on a pin on an excavater when a piece of metal broke off and hit the ee in the jaw-2 stitches .
carbon monoxide samples in the recently opened west lease , north/south entries began to demonstrate increasing and fluctuating values to a point that we determined to call msha . sufco had been consulting with the price filed office concerning the sample results . there was not a sudden influx or inundation of gases .
the ee had pushed the slider tube forward and turned to go get another tube when a piece of rib ( 24 '' x18 '' x4 '' ) fell out and struck the ee in the back of neck and hard hat .
ee was setting breaker up when it blew up causing burns to right side face , ear and right hand .
ee was traming pinner from the side to re position pinner.the tram chain broke and a link struck him in shin .
rotating engine to readjust valves on loader , hetwisted back .
employee was cutting outer jacket off of a tram motor cable when the knife slipped and cut his left thumb . this is a courtesy report . this injury not required to be reported as no stitches wer e used .
ee was working on # 12 atlas drill . working surface of drill was elevated approx 40 '' off ground . he climbed up the equipment to retrieve a battery charger using an 8 '' block of wood as a step la dder . as he stepped down , the wood block turned & ee fell backwards & turned in the air landing on his left hand & right wrist .
employee alleges that he hurt his left shoulder while rolling a hydraulic hose . empolyee was treated by an m.d . and returned to work on restricted duty and will follow up with his doctor in two weeks .
ee was restacking 50 # bags . he picked one off the floor and felt pain in his lower back . ee did seek medical attention .
ee was driving new oem wedge into the manufactured wedge slot of crusher to separate the top shell from the bottom shell with a # 8 sledge hammer . a small chip of the wedge sheared off and lodged into ees lower left thigh near knee cap .
employee was grinding off metal that had been cut on flop gate . a piece of metal must have got under ee's safety shield and safety glasses , causing an abrasion to eye . employee did not notice discomfort until ee got home .
ee was welding and did not wear a welding hood . he received flash burns to his eyes .
ee was performing hot work on a crusher roll , as ee stepped back to review the cut ee had made , the limestone fines found in the crevices of the roll burst outward , causing dust to enter the employee's left eye . employee was seen by dr. and a corneal abrasion was found and prescribed eye medication .
employee was cutting piece of two inch pipe with a cutting wheel . employee reported that debris entered left eye . no foreign body was located upon examination . employee received ofloxacin solution to prevent infection .
employee previously worked for gateway eagle coal company , llc and retired on 06/27/2013 . on 05/30/2014 information was received diagnosing the employee with occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee was exiting cab of mucker when the machine articulated . he was pinned in the door and received a pelvic fracture . msha was contacted immediately pending additional information about the extent of the injury .
electrician was removing electrical tape from a motor lead with a utility knife . the knife slipped off the tape and cut his left thumb between the first and second knuckles . the cut was about 1 '' long and required four stiches to close .
employee was standing inside of 5 1/2 crusher bowl . he was using air chisel to remove old nordbak from filler blocks , one of the blocks came loose and fell to the floor and over on to top of e mployee's foot causing fracture in bone of left foot .
employee was shoveling into a dumpster hopper and pushing the dumpster onto and off of an elevator car . complained of back pain 24 hours after the incident .
tech . attempted to pick up a chock block from under a haul truck . he felt pain in his groin area , after dr. visit it was determined that he had a hernia . ee had surgery on 3/10/11 . ee missed no time from work and has rec . full release to return on his next sch . shift .
while doing some fabrication work , ee had to use the grinder and his thumb made contact with the grinding stone .
a fall of supported roof occurred at spad station no . 447 in the # 3 entry on # 4 belt on south mains . no injuries resulted from this fall , no equipment was damaged , ventilation was not impaired . the fall measured approx . 18 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' high .
ee reported he was experiencing eye irritation that he attributed to welding flash burn . he worked monday & tuesday day shifts in section ii performing intermittent small welding jobs . he work ed overtime in the power house on a welding job monday 3-11 shift . he said he could not identify a specific event but that his eye became irritated slightly on the 21st & more severe today .
walking to mail drop , tripped on carpet & fell to floor . tried to break fall by putting hands out , hitting cabinet & counter . struck her face on the counter . hands were bruised & both knees hit cabinet doors & knobs . one knee struck the door knob & the other the cabinet . continued to have complications with knee . mri : torn meniscus in left knee ; surgery scheduled 1/18/06 .
ee moving a steel box when the plate clamp slipped and the steel box fell onto ee right foot fracturing a bone in right foot . ee released with light duty restrictions following ortho specialist exam .
ee stated lifting & handling 66 '' 6 '' x6 '' wooden timbers , placing under machine for support before making repairs , experienced pain to his lower back .
while ee was entering elevator on 1st fl of millroom , he raised his rt hand to secure latch at the top right-hand corner . when he did this , theelevator door slammed shut onto his finger . ( ple ase note : ee over-rode safety feature of elevator door by placing hand in a pinch point ) .
a roof fall was found at 9:45 am in the small block submains bleeder , at brk 14 , in entry 3 & 4. the fall was approx . 7 ' x 20 ' x 80 ' . the opening was 20 ' w & 8.5 ' h. additional roof support was added to the area .
ee was removing a piece of unused electrical wire stuck between 2 guards he was installing . the wire was stuck so that he continued to pull harder each time until the wire was dislodged . as it became dislodged , his safety glasses fell off ofhis face . that time he pulled back toward his face pushing the wire in his eye .
employee was fabricating a reinforcing mat of rebar for concrete . he was burning a piece to size when a spark went under his safety glasses and went into his eye in the pupil area , becoming lodged .
roof fall has occurred on the # 2 section ( mmu 002-0 ) the fall was 42 inches thick , 17 feet wide and 22 feet long in the # 4 right crosscut at survey station # 853 . ( narrative per violation no . 8070199 )
employee was installing roof bolts on # 4 unit . a piece of rock fell and struck him on the right arm above his kevlar sleeve causing a laceration . this laceration had to be closed with sutures .
ee is unit repairman . he was trying to take fitting off of y strainer on feeder water system with a pipe wrench . while pulling on pipe wrench , he strained lower back muscle .
the employee was walking along the catwalk along c-7 conveyor when the last section of gripstrut catwalk slipped out from under his feet causing him to fall about 9 feet to the ground . the section of catwalk was not bolted down .
ee had finished bolting for the night and was just about to leave for the man trip when he realized he had left his wire cutters on the bolter . he reached back and grabbed the cutters , then turned around running into the edge of the atrs on the bolting machine . this caused a laceration above the left eye which had to be closed with sutures .
the ep was roof bolting when a broken fitting was discovered on the outside of the roof bolter . ep stopped bolting and walked around the back side of the machine and walked up the side and found the fitting that was broken . ep turned around and started back when a rock fell from the top where the roof meets the coal and hit ep in the right ankle .
an unintentional hoist stoppage occurred at the crab apple portal . an electrical malfunction occurred when a motor shaft connected to the tack ometer & sending false reading to the drive unit .
ee driving rock truck up out of steep pit when the load shifted to the rear causing the trucks front end to raise up 4-5 feet and then slam down jarring the truck causing pain in lower back .
employee was swinging a sledge hammer trying to remove a large pin on a demag .
he was bagging on the # 25 bagline when he sprained a muscle .
ee , plant electrician , was shocked while cleaning inside of control box of diesel pump , in which he thought was de-energized . he was spraying with cleaner and wiping it out , and received a sma ll shock 110v causing him to fall backwards striking head and shoulder on pipe .
fire service technician was disabling the fire suppression system . ansul check valve was installed improperly , arrow pointing improper direction not allowing pressure to release . he loosened the top actuator nut causing the pressure to release thru the plastic on the pro activating devise actuator which fragmented causing laceration to the technician's nose .
helping siloman start roto valve , slipped and twisted right knee .
miner was preparing to work on a crusher . upon inspecting the crusher , ee hit head on the overhead conveyor ( de-energized ) , which knocked off ee's hard hat . ee lurched forward to grab the hard hat and hit head on a support for the conveyor wiper which cut ee's head . ee received 5 staples from the er . ee returned to doctor the next day and was released to full duty .
employee was cleaning road entrance on vulcan side scalehouse . entrance road right of way was blocking view of traffic leaving the plant . ee reported this on 6-28-01 , went to doctor on 6-28-01 , received a shot . employee has no restrictions .
ee was chipping ice buildup with hammer & hit his right wrist with hammer
employee strained a muscle in his midback while moving pipe .
williamstown contractor employee sustained a laceration to his right upper thigh while using a hand held grinder to cut a section of the impact bed of the 1 north # 2 belt when the grinder kicked back and struck his leg . sutures were required to close the wound .
employee was carrying 2 bags of rockdust when 1 bag slipped out of his hand landing on his left foot . began losing time 4/26/13 .
north 5 belt , between 72-73 block , 5 entry , mmu 004 spad # 8271 . 17 ' wide x 30 ' long x 8 ' high . support : 6'3/4 '' resin bolts , screen , pans , truss bolts , straps , 6-12 ' . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
cowling bottom - ee was troubleshooting under the hood mantrip . when troubleshooting was done , the hood of mantrip dropped down , crushing right little finger .
while backing a loader up from getting a bucket of coal , right rear wheel dropped down in a holebouncing operator & injured his lower back from shock abo and bounce
employee alleges that he sustained multiple physical injuries from minor motor vehicl accident . employee was driving truck and had left the truck dump station . he was traveling approximately 5-mph going down hill and 'rear-ended ' another truck that had stopped . submission be filed under protest
the employee was using a porta power ram to open a drain at the bottom of autoclave # 2 on the 5th compartment . a piece of material entered behind the glasses . the eye was irrigated without succ ess and the employee was transported to e.r . theeye was anesthetized and a foreign body removed from the right lateral corneal edge .
employee was exiting the komatsu , pc400lc , excavator and slipped off the track and fell to the ground and twisted their knee , causing a bump in the knee .
while rolling ( moving ) rock off miner , ee mashed finger with rock .
ee was pulling a partially frozen fire hose off of a raffinate tank & felt pain in her back .
allegedly , while removing chunck from gyp feeder , employee was hit in the face when large chunk came down hitting bit on chipping gun .
ee was cutting zip ties from stake with a utility knife and cut his left hand between thumb and forefinger .
ee was walking on spoil material and stepped in a hole with his left leg . nothing was reported . approx . 1 week later the right leg began to swell . subject went to doctor and was told he may ha ve a blood clot in his right leg . treatment did not help so he went to another doctor who found the right leg broken due to overstressing the bone .
ee was descending a ladder when he stepped onto the floor , his left knee twisted and he felt a pop .
rockdust hose blew off and ee ran into tool box at bunker . ***ee did not start losing time until 9/26/02 due to shoulder surgery***
when ee and coworker were removing the tail pulley guard he stepped over uneven ground and lost his footing . when he stumbled he caught himself not completely falling and hurt his back . employee has worked full duty with some back discomfort until 3/09/2012 when he had surgery to alleviate the pain . - this surgery makes the incident reportable lost time 03/12/2012 .
ee was using adjustable wrench to remove torch from oxygen/acetylene supply hoses . the pulling motion induced tension on left shoulder resulting in muscle/tendon strain . on 7/28/03 , orthopedic specialist prescribed anti-inflammatory and possible therapy .
ee was removing loose rock in wire mesh when a rock fell striking his right 5th finger causing it to hit the man basket . ee received a laceration that required stitches .
employee was crawling out of gravity screeen box and fell approximately 4 ' landing on his chin . he busted his chin open requiring 5 stitches .
on 12/8/2016 , an employee was at the tricanter to do clean up of electrolyte and organic . as employee stepped off the curbing and onto the yellow ramp , they slipped , landing on their side hurting their right ankle . on 12/9/2016 , employee was given restrictions .
while lifting the motor guard on hp400 cone with a crane , the picking bolt pulled out of the threads and the guard came down from the crane hook . as the guard came down , the corner of the guard hit ee in the face on the left cheek . ee was taken to the hospital where he received five stitches .
a customer truck driver was injured at the mine when he fell from his truck bed while tarping his load . the driver disobeyed hanson site specific training by exiting his truck and climbing in to his bed . the driver lost his balance when a tarping hook snagged his pant leg which caused him to fall . the driver suffered a fractured right wrist .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at spad 9 and 30 on the 1st northwest panel # 4 entry 2 e headings . it measured 20 ' by 19 ' by 12 ' . the approaches are timbered and dangered off . the fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was installing track on a dozer . he struck the track with a hammer to align it . a chip of metal struck him in the left leg . four stitches to close .
ee was operating tr13 lube buggy . pulled up to # 23 to jump start . set brake and chocked tire . reached in to set high idle on lube buggy . lube buggy was left in 2nd gear . tr13 overcame brake and proceeded forward throwing ee to the ground . resulted in ee injuring left knee . two ee's affected .
ee was asked to assist another w/anode that fell off strongback . while assisting , ee noticed the anode next to the one being replaced wasn't completely on hook . he grabbed the anode ear & was pushing the ear back on hook when opposite ear came off other hook . ee attempted to let loose but left middle finger was smashed between ear of anode & rack .
shredded plastic used for alternate process fuel that was stored in a covered containment caught fire . unknown if the cover or plastic ignited first , cover was burnt off the structure and surface of plastic's was burnt . source of ignition unknown . fire was extinguished but had exceeded 30 minute time frame , call was made to msha hotline . report to be filed with area msha office .
ee was handing a pry bar to a co-worker when he felt weakness in his forearm & elbow .
the injured is a roof bolter , he said he had a bolt stuck in the hole in roof when he pulled the bolt out of roof he mashed his litte finger between the bolt head & the wrench on bolter .
lifting 60 lb . rock samples repetitively into bed of pickup truck , which created a repetitive motion injury .
building a stopping he dropped concrete block onhis own head . he continued working until 3/6/01 .
ee was shoveling under the # 2 tail pulley & the ee bent under the catwalk to get to the other side . when the ee tried to get up he felt a pop in his bakc
employee reached down to retrieve the ground wires from the mcc raceway . there was contact between the ground wires and the energized 480 vac buss . an arc occurred and he received burns to both hands .
the ee was removing a rock from bridge conveyor . when he reached into bridge conveyor , his right middle finger was caught by conveyor flight .
as employee climbed down the scaffold ladder he misjudged the scaffold deck . he fell from the third from bottom rung hitting his right side on the scaffold midrail .
a roof fall was discovered by a msha inspector and company safety official in the face of crosscut # 28 going from 4-3 heading on the 10 left section . the section was idle at the time the fall was discovered . due to the location of the fall , the size is unknown at this time .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia north portal on the # 3 belt/crosscut 94/7950 ' . the fall was approx . 100 ' long , 18 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of people . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 21u .
ee was getting out of the scoop . he had one foot out of the scoop ( left foot ) , as he was pulling his right leg out of the cab he struck his shin on the cab frame , cutting his shin .
ee left the section and went outside without telling his supervisor . supervisor call outside and told ee to return to the section or he considered him quit for walking off the job . ee left min e s8te and went home . after he got home , ee called back to the mines and told the guard that he hurt his back by pulling a piece of brattice cloth .
while bagging , a 2000 lb . bulk bag fell on his hand .
ee was in the process of putting roof bolt resinin a hole when he placed his hand on top of the canopy and a piece of rock fell and struck his pinky finger .
employee was repositioning an 8 ' ladder when he experienced pain in his lower abdomen . on 6/15/00 , he was still experiencing discomfort and wastaken to lutheran medical center .
on 10/11/06 employee reported to supervisor that his back was sore due to work he was doing on 10/7/06 . employee reported using chipping gun overhead to remove buildup of material in elephant trunk of # 4 rr belt head pulley . on 10/12/06 at the end of the shift he went to doctor and returned to work on the 13th reporting that he had gone to the doctor .
ee had a 1/4 '' x 6ft factory wire pull rope attached to overhead crane hoist . it was attached to a new wear plate . when the plate was hoisted to the bucket , the crimped end of the cable got stuck in the hole . bill then took a six foot pry bar and cleared it . the sudden release of energy from the bar pulled the slate bar to the bucket , smashing his left thumb .
person was pushing rock into longwall face conveyor after gob out occurred at headgate . while doing so he inadvertently fell into the face conveyor & was pulled under rock in the panline as conveyor was stopped . injuries incl . lacerations to head & lower abdomen , fractures to pelvis , lt elbow & wrist , rt hand . accident was investigated by msha wv & mettiki officials .
ee was cleaning sticky coal from the buckets in the coal elevator . while cleaning a bucket , a piece of coal fell and struck him on the arm .
after hanging the miner cable around the intersection in lob # 6 entry , ee was talking to the foreman . the scoop operator inadvertently hooked the miner cable 2 breaks away . causing the cable to fall down and drag across the intersection causing ee to trip over cable . resulting in falling on a baseball size rock bruising his back .
employee was reaching for a shovel when a rock fell out from between two longwall shields and struck him on his left shoulder , knocking his hard hat off his head .
employee was pushing raw coal on the # 1 stacker as he backed up and turned the dozer to the right , the dozer became stuck in the # 1 variable feeder . there were no injuries with this occurance
ee was servicing # 2 stoker plant . while greasing feeder bearing , he put his right hand behind bearing to see if any grease came through . the feeder caught his hand & cut his right index finger & thumb .
while climbing down ladder on primary crusher , 4th step broke causing ee to fall on crusher hitting middle of his back .
while roof bolting the injured was drilling a hole into the mine roof when a portion of roof broke around the drill steel . the rotation of the drill caused the rock to spin around the steel . ee stopped the rotation and the rock broke and a portion of it struck ee on the forehead above the left eye . the rock caused a laceration and small portions had to be surgically removed .
employee was pouring air line anti-freeze into afitting on the air line going to the air compressor . trapped air in the line caused it to blow back into his face . he was wearing glasses .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 11 mains north section between 9 xc and 10 xc in the # 5 entry . the fall was 12 ' wide , 30 ' long , and 6 ' to 8 ' high . the fall was due to a slicken side fault that appears to have been localized to the fall area . there was also some evidence of improperly installed roof bolts .
the ee was drilling pin holes for pipe supports a rock fell from the back and struck his left thumb . it caused a fracture and the ee recieved a release for 10-10-03
mechanic was installing a bogie roller on a spare portable carbody . mechanic was attempting to position the roller and had the flange of the roller on top of the track rail . the bogie roller slipped into place pinching his right pinky finger between the roller and the track rail .
while an employee was stepping out of the skid steer ee had been operating ee rolled ee's right ankle when ee's foot contacted the roadway . seen by site medic , referred to the er , x-rays were positive for a fracture , restrictions were issued .
there was an ignition in f-11 at the face of # 3 inby 6 wall 170 ' . the ignition lasted 20 seconds and was extinguished with water sprays and water hose . there was no damage to equipment or inju ries to personnel .
while driving scoop outside , the injuried person hit a hole in roadway taking steering wheel out of hand and hitting on top of hand .
ee was climbing down the ladder of a cat 988b loader when the last step of the ladder broke . this caused him to pitch forward and bruise his chest on the ladder .
ee was holding pin in place , while other was driving pin into bucket boss with a sledge hammer . other struck ee's hand .
while installing a 8 ' torque tension roof bolt- employee's hand ( r ) was struck by the bolt wrench .
mechanic was removing tooth from loader bucket . hammer on tooth to loosen , sliver of metal broke free from tooth and pieces mechanic in chest . metal gragment sliver was removed by medical personnel at emery medical center . puncture required 6 stitches and mechanic returned to work .
employee was turning a bull wheel by pulling the powerbands to troubleshoot a zero speed switch problem on the crusher rolls and caught his right fingers between the belt and bushing . three fingers were fractured .
at 6:31 am an explosion occurred behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . msha , state and company have initiated investigation but results not yet available .
employee was weed wacking when he hit a yellow jacket nest resulting in stings .
ee was sitting working on super scalper and when he raised up to change position he felt pain inhis left hip down to his knee .
ee was operating a scoop and pushing a coal hauler to the battery charging station . the equipment became entangled and suddenly freed up , which resulted in a substantial jolt . ee's head was th rust upward into the canopy and he was momentari7ly dazed and this was followed by couple of minutes of tingling sensations in his extremities .
employee was helping other plant personnel change bottom belt roller on conveyer # 1. a rope was tied to one end of the roller to aid in picking up and installing the roller into its frame . emp loyee was in an elevated position , and pulled a muscle in his chest .
crane was holding the lock post cylinder 8 '' -10 '' above the platform as the emp was kneeling beside it ee was hitting the lock post cylinder rod trying to extend it out when the snap ring holding the top cap in place came out and allowed the cylinder body to come loose , hit the platform and fall onto the emp knee .
blast crew member injured ee's right hand when ee tripped over a rock while walking and reached out to catch self from striking the mine floor .
employee was standing at the desk in the scale house weighing a truck when high winds blew the roof off of the building and blew out all of thw windows in the building . employee sustained a cut on the hand which required stitches .
ee was attempting to remove poly hoses from a culvert by bending down & pulling them through the culvert . he felt a lower back discomfort when he pulled on one of them .
injured employee , assisting a vendor in installing an a/c fan motor on the roof of the pcr room of a 2570 dragline , stepped on a 2 '' pad eye and twisted his right foot inward . he suffered a fracture to his 5th metarsal upon contact and was taken to the kayenta , az clinic for treatment . later , was referred to a flagstaff , az orthopedist for further evaluation and treatment .
employee was emptying trash drum and felt severepain in upper back .
ee was dismounting the haul truck ( euclid r-35 ) using three points of contact . ee stepped down on a piece of rock and felt a pop in right foot . ee has a metatarsal fracture in right foot .
a piece of drawrock struck employee on the back .
ee was picking up an oxygen bottle and felt a strian in the groin area . continued to work unti 7/13 when he reinjured it by picking up a beam .
ee was working on miner and while he was using a sledge hammer he hit his left hand and fractured it around the thumb area .
sliding 4 '' h-beam over the top of the last shield on the recovery face rock fell along side of the shield striking ee and landing on his ankle . cause of the injury was safety awareness . compliance with rules/regs , protective equip was not a factor . miner knowledge may be a factor , mining systems could be a factor .
ee stated that he was loading bolts onto a roof bolter band that holds bolts together was hanging loose his hand caught end of strap
ee was parking a mack truck after hauling product from stockpile . as the ee was exiting the truck his foot became entangled in his seatbelt causing him to fall to the ground and landing on his left shoulder , back and chest .
ee was cleaning around conveyor belt , loose material on conveyor when loader operator , loaded a dry heated bauxite material in hopper which spilled out of discharge chute onto ee . loader opera tor was unaware of ee during cleaning .
ee was welding on skid loader bucket and a welding slag got in his left ear .
immediate roof was shale app 5 ft thick adjoining sand stone in a long swag area bolted with 4 ft roof bolts shale pulled loose from sand stone .
dyno nobel crew was feeding loading hose through outbound hose sheave assembly . ee was standing on truck using 3 points of contact . ee's right hand was on hose boom carousel . hose boom moved pinching ee's middle finger right hand between hose boom guide wheel and hose boom carousel . ee received 7 stitches .
miner was making cut into face for second shuttle car load when an ignition occured . there were no injuries .
emp stated : removing rock from feeder , flight caught rock , rock moved suddenly catching his finger against feeder frame .
he was washing down the slope belt facing inby , when he stepped on loose material causing him to fall and twist his left ankle . he continued to work at his regular duties but continued to have pain . he was removed from work on june 14 , 2010 after an mri indicated a nondisplaced talar fracture .
employee stated that he was loading a bed plate from old longwall face . he reached down to pick up a winch cable when he felt a pain in his back . he was placed on restrictive duty on 6/25/07 .
ee felt pain in his lower back as he bent over & threw cable out of roadway
the dozer operator was cleaning the # 540 dozer on the wash rack pad . he lifted a 75 lb stone off the side frame and felt a pull in his groin area . on 11-4-03 , was the first day lost .
roof fall between # 1 & # 2 entry x-cut 15 , around 4'-6'h x 50'l x 20'w . there were 2 cribs set in # 2 & # 1 entry . area had slip going through area ; area mined around oct-nov 1999. fall in iso lated area & was dangered & timbered off .
a roof fall occured at 6a longwall belt entry @ 3 & 84. fall measured 50 ' long and 10 ' to 12 ' high .
had rail car wrecked in booster drive area at # 21 break . had rail car jacked up and was going to pull car over with 3/4 ton come alongs . hooked up to a shackle on a rib bolt . when pressure from the come alongs loosened plate , a piece of rib rolled out & struck ee on the outside of the rt . leg .
employee pinched his fingers between the steel frame of the multimul and the pry bar the employee was using to clear a product buildup . the prybar got between the belt and return roller of the multimul . employee suffered lacerations to his finger on both hands requiring 5 sutures to repair wounds .
employee was holding ladder for another employee when he took a step back , tripped and fell - hitting his head on the crossmember of a sawhorse . employee suffered a concussion .
ee was walking to his work area in basement of step 111 line 7 agglomerator when he slipped on tactonite pellets and twisted his ankle .
while shoveling dirt and mud , ee hit right hand knuckle on a motor bracket , causing a laceration .
ee was assigned the repair duties of welding in a coal handling chute below secondary crusher at the crusher conveyor system . he repositioned his body to perform overhead welding . while doing so the hot welding rod contacted the left side of his neck resulting in second degree burns that were 3/8 '' in diameter .
ee was unhooking a hose off the bottom of tank y-15 . he thought he had bled the pressure off and unhooked the hose . the hose still had pressure in it . the bottom of the tank was not dogged off all the way . when he disconnected the hose , it spread out . his goggles were loose , caustic went between his face & his goggles into his right eye .
ee was closing a 6 inch coupling on a pump when a knot popped up on his right wrist . although a little sensitive , it did not cause pain . he reported it , iced it and continued to work . this is a ganglion cyst .
a grass fire occurred in sandow mine on tuesday , july 27 , 2010. the fire started at approximately 2:30 p.m. on buffer property owned by alcoa inc. east of the mine reclaim area . an electrical spark started the grass fire . the alcoa rockdale and milano volunteer fire department responded . no injuries resulted from the fire and it was under control by approximately 3:30 p.m .
ee was removing a piece of stuck core from core shore . sustained puncture wound to l hand .
the ee was instructed to push in the 3i surge pile . the ee exited his loader to remove cones that were in front of the syntron hole . when the ee went to move the cones he slipped on ice/snow that was in the yard catching himself with his left shoulder .
ee was cutting off a bit lug from a cont miner . he struck the bit lug with a sledge hammer & a piece of metal went in his left thigh . he was transported to hosp and treated , then referred to a specialist . the specialist determined that the metal should be left alone .
employee was prepping coal near quit time . as he was coming down off coal rib he missed the ramphe was jarred around in the loader allowing the right side of his head to strike a support insid e the cab .
employee was cleaning under the kiln feed and dust hopper when shove bumped the chute and material came out covering ee . dust got in eye causing an irritation and burn to face and right eye
ee was swinging a sledgehammer & hit a chainfall chain that was pulled tight , when the hammer `` bounced '' off the chain , ee lost his balance & landed on his tailbone causing a bruise .
ee was helping pull a piece of highline during a section move . the highline was being pulled by a scoop and became fouled on a 6 '' joint of water line . when ee stepped towards the water line to unfoul it , the water line broke and a piece of it struck him on the right leg , causing laceration . this occurred in the # 5 entry of the 001-0 mmu .
the ee stated that he was moving a piece of rock 36 '' x 40 '' x 5 '' out of the bed ( behind the push plate ) on # 2 coalhauler . when he lifted up on the rock , it slid on the slick metal and pinched h is finger between the rock and the bed plate . this resulted in a laceration of the right little finger . the ee ws wearing gloves .
the ee was walking down the entry and stepped on a rock and twisted his right knee . the physcion recommended ice , rest and possible theapy 9-26-03 the ee first day away from work was 9-26-03
ee was air gouging on a dragline bucket when a small piece of slag fell into his work glove and burned the middle finger on his left hand . this accident reported until 6-19-01 after the burn b ecame infected .
ee was at work when he felt a crick in his neck . did not report until 4-14-02. was not doing anything at the time he felt the pain . had been installing a hydraulic hose on a jumbo drill two ho urs earlier .
ee was changing screen cloth at the crusher , stepped on the discharge lip causing ee to slip and lose footing . ee slipped down the discharge shoot approx 6 ' landing on the conveyor belt .
contractor employee ( c1 ) was moving refractory bricks from a manway inside a calciner when a second contractor employee ( c2 ) accidentally dropped a tweeter pipe on c1's right hand . c1 was taken to beaufort county hospital and x-rays showed c1 had a fractured index finger .
ee was kneeling down to wire tie the bottom of gates . ee felt a slight pop in right knee . when he stood up , he noticed his knee was swelling .
employee was using a pry bar to close the bottom door of a cement railacar . his hand slipped from the pry bar , causing him to lose his balance , and twist his ankle . this resulted in a sprained ankle .
ee was attempting to put hood brace back into place when the hood jumped out of its socket and fell on ee .
ee was removing 3/4 '' mounting bolt from base of 150 hp motor . a 1 1/8 '' combination wrench was being used . as employee pushed with excessive force to remove bolt , wrench slipped causing wrench to hit ee on chin resulting in laceration to chin that required sutures .
water truck parked at end of shift . during am hours , short occured at battery cable . spark ignited grease on frame grease dripped onto fuel line , melting small hole in line . diesel dripped onto ground . sparks ignited diesel on ground . passing coal train saw smoke underneath truck @ 5:30 am called wright fire dept . fire dept arrived @ 6 am . extinguished fire @ 6:03 am .
a new roof fall was found in b-butt section of # 5 entry . last open crosscut at survey station 19+45 . fall is approx . 60 ' long by 4-5 ' high by80 ' wide ; area was supported with 4 ' resin bolts and is dangered off and doesn't affect ventila- tion or excapeways . cause of fall was roof failure created by bolts which create a beam .
cummulative trauma to lower back from operating loader and running the # 2 sand plant for many years .
ee was adjusting packing on booster pump when the wrench slipped and pinched his finger between the wrench and pump base .
while crawling over post pile on pillar section . foreman's hand slipped and posts rolled and ee fell against post pile breaking rib .
ee was working on a rotarty diverter when he hit his left thumb with a hammer , smashing his finger
employee was chipping out build up inside of cone crusher , accumlated debris fell on employee causing him to sprain neck .
ee had been stripping using a dozer . while the dozer was being fueled up , another employee noticed that the dozer was missing a pin . the ee walked back to where he had pushed down some timber to look for the pin . he stepped on a rock , it rolled underneath his foot causing him to fall and sprain his right ankle .
a sight string was hung from the roof screens so that the cans in the tailgate could be set in a straight line . after wedging in a can , the mini-trac was tramming out-by to get another can when the sight string got caught on the machine and was jerked down resulting in the `` j '' hook hitting the injured employee in the right cheek . 7 stitches were required .
employee reported that he pushed the wrong leverraising the floor lift & causing his head & neckto be jammed into the canopy .
while exiting # 1 clinker cooler during repairs . handrail was missing on platform . ee fell hitting lower handrail with body . injury to left side rib cage .
the ee was using a hammer to clear clog from chute in surge tunnel . when clog was freed , his left hand was caught between a piece of angle iron 7 freed material . this resulted in stitches to m iddle & index fingers .
roof fall > e-mains # 15 blk in # 6 entry 1-blk outby station spad 602 . 20l x 6h x 15w
the victim trammed a scoop to a pallet of rockdust . he positioned himself between scoop and rockdust so as to load dust onto battery end of scoop . while landing rockdust the scoop drifted back wards mashing his legs between scoop and pallet .
the headgate drum threw a rock and it hit the injured int he right earmuff . a piece of the earmuff broke and puncture his right cheek it took 3 sutures to close the wound .
was removing a big rock from the grizzley with a bar and pulled upward on the bar hurting his back
employee was walking down lw face and got foot stuck in relay bar . employee tripped and struck knee against a shield .
ee was climbing down a four foot ladder out of a generator trailer and stepped to the ground twisting his left ankle .
ee received a 5 % permanent disability award for occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee was shoveling spilled material from a pile near a conveyor tail pulley . employee did not ture entire body while shoveling and noticeda slight discomfort in lower back .
a fall of roof rock occured in the entry driven off # 3 heading at # 40 crosscut on the 8e section . no injuries or property damage resulted from this occurrence . it is not known when the fallo ccurred but it was found on 8-28-00 .
ee slipped while assembling equipment after repair and bent his leg underneath himself .
the ee was using a torch to melt snow from the head pulley on the near pit crusher when the pulley caught the torch and forced his hand to slam to the side . hitting a piece of angle iron .
ee was at the power box when a rock fell from the top , hitting him on the arm ( laceration to left forearm ) .
elevator down . the govenor rope has some rusty places where it rests on the shive wheel at the bottom . national elevator found broken strands . rope is ordered . national elevator will replace asap .
employee was riding in a track mantrip and the mantrip jumped track at a curve , he claims to have hurt his neck . cause of this injury was excessive speed . compliance with rules/regs was a factor , protective equipment ( hardhat ) was a factor , miner attitude a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
employee was drilling and steel got stuck . he used a pipewrench with upward pressure to loosen the steel . when steel came loose , pipewrench hit him in mouth , chipping his tooth .
ee slipped & fell on ice and snow , injuring his right knee .
ee has filed a claim for hearing loss based on an evaluation by an audiologist .
ee was operating a front endloader on the night shift . at approximately 3:00a.m . he began having chest pains so he went to the shop to rest . at the shop the supervisor asked him several times if he could take him to the doctor & he refused . at the end of the shift a co-worker followed him home & contacted his wife . a doctor confirimed a heart attack . he has been off since 1/15/03 .
ee was operating bobcat up a hil , he accelerated too fast , causing bobcat to lose traction and roll over .
while lifting ring beam into place , ee put leg on steel to position it . ring beam hung momentarily on lip of liner plate . when it let loose , theforce shoved on ee's knee and hip .
ee was taking nuts off a bolt and lost grip withpipe wrench , he was using a pipe for extention for leverage and when he lost grip on bolt , pipestruck him on the head .
employee was bolting when a t plate came down and struck his right wrist . medical treatment injury
ee was dragging roller along belt and felt a pain in lt shoulder . originaly reported as a report only incident , ee later asked for a dr visit . it was found that ee has a labrum tear , bone spurs and fluid in lt shoulder . ee is being scheduled for surgery and has been taken off work . ee's last worked day was 11/05/2015 .
while shoveling belt line the employee twisted his back while emptying shovel onto belt line . upon investigation of the incident and completion of subsequest medical tests/examinations , it has been now been determined that this is a reportable injury .
employee was driving track vehicle when cargo load required adjustment . while adjusting cargo load employee slipped & fell forward landing in prone position on deck . due to incline position of vehicle , employee then rolled off deck & fell appx 5 feet & landed on spongy vegetated ground resulting in injury to left shoulder . employee was wearing all required ppe at time of event .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred in the no . 3 out by entry at break no . 79 in the secondary escapeway . the fall does not impede travel of miners or interupt ventilation .
a roof fall was discovered at 1:30pm in the # 4 mains one xcut in by ss 651. the fall measures approx . 20 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' high .
while moving feeder cable employee stepped on a rock twisting his right ankle . employee was treated at med express in beckley and was diagnosed with a fibula fracture .
an employee was handing a piece of steel plate ( 2'x3 ' ) from a shaker screen to ee and the plate slipped out of his hands and pinched ee's left hand between the steel plate and a pipe . he broke a bone in his left hand .
a roof fall occurred # 6 entry x-cut # 10 main west # 2 entry 2a panel spad # 2878 one xcut north l 17 ' x w 17 ' x t 12 ' . the roof was bolted with 6 ' fully grouted bolts & 12 ' cable bolts .
employee stepped in a hole as he was exiting the mantrip . he felt pain in his left knee and back of left leg . he did not miss work until nov. 12 2002 .
worker was spliting stone using a hammer and chisel when he struck his finger with the hammer causing a crushing injury to his finger .
ee was installing a hydraulic hose on a 560 loader . ee pulled on the hose and felt pain in his wrist ; had slight swelling immediately . ee did not inform anyone unitl friday , 4/1/05 & ee refused to see doctor . on monday , 4/4/05 , ee still complained of pain , but still refused to see doctor . on tuesday , 4/5/05 , ee asked to see doctor . taken to doctor 4/6/05 .
while letting chain down from shoulder , extra loop of chain slipped off and caught right thumb , bending it outward . ee felt he could take care of thumb . went to doctor 5/27 . surgery on 7/17/04 .
while working on a crusher repair , the ee bumpedhis head on an overhead dust collection pipe . eesustained a strained neck.ee reported incident on 1/22/04 worked entire shift . next shift stated his neck was sore -- treatment at clinic 1/23/04 ret 'd to work on 1/23/04 no restrictions
ee was injured when the concrete hose he was using to place concrete with surged due to an air pocket in the line . the end of the line where he was at jumped to the side hitting him on his ankle . he was taken to the hospital where they determined his ankle was broken . they put a cast on and sent him home . he has been released again for light duty work at this time .
ee was stepping off of a platform on the roof bolter and twisted his left knee when he stepped down . he worked up until 2/17/04 . his first missed work day was 2/18/04 . he has a knee strain and is scheduled for an mri .
during the employee's normal duties ( no event ) he had back pain . since being employed at this mine or by this company , this ee has had twelve back claims . please note : the ee stopped work on 6-18-02 .
ee ( left handed ) was using a 4lb hammer with both hands to drive a dump shaft onto mobile bridge ( # 3 ) .the hammer glanced off shaft and hit sprocket ; and a small piece of metal from sprocket flew into his right hand causing injury . the piece of metal entered between middle knuckles and embedded itself in top of his right hand . puncture wound , laceration , & cut to vein ; top of hand .
on march 5 , 2007 the employee underwent surgery for a cumulative injury/illness . employee could not recall a specific njury or event . medical providers determined this was work related and cumulative in nature .
employee was loading track rails onto a flatcar when a piece of rail slid around catching his left index finger between the rails causing a laceration that reqiured stitches .
the fall occurred last evening on unit 1 around 6:30 pm . fall occurred in an intersection in # 6 entry one break outby spad # 39563. area had been cribbed & rope bolted & was bolted with 5 ' torque tension bolts . fall was approx 20 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' high . additional cribs have been installed on the belt line & all approaches have been cribbed off . the fall will not be cleaned up .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millenium portal at the main west entry # 5 , 4692 w at crosscut 36. the fall was approx 35 ft long , approx 18 ft wide and approx 16-17 ft thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of men . the fall will not be cleaned up .
mechanic had removed a flat tire from a western star tractor and while rolling it to the repair rack lost control and dropped flat on the floor . ee then asked another mechanic to help stand the tire back up . as the two mechanics up-righted tire the steel wheel dropped out of the tire hitting ee on the top of left foot just above the steel toes of work boots
using hi pressure woma gun to break up material build up . dust fell onto helmet & when employee looked up , dust slid off helmet & between safety shield into his left eye .
injured lifted an acetylene tank up on one end to slide it into a carrying sleeve that was on a jeep . walked aroung and lifted the other end and slid it into the sleeve . he raised up and felt pain in middle of back . weighed approximately 90 pounds .
ee was raising water line across belt and track entry using 1-1/2 ton chain ratchet . he attachedratchet to clevis in roof bolt plate and when heapplied pressure it pulled the plate and the nut off the roofbolt and a piece of drawrock fell striking him in the shoulder .
ee reported after removing nylon straps form low boy , walked over to slope shaft wall and hung on storage rail , turned to walk away , foot become entangled and fell on left elbow .
ee was cutting bags apart for use in the bagging machine and cut right thumb with the box cutter .
ee was taking an 8 foot 2 inch hose from the yard crew storage shed . he put the hose on his shoulder and started out of the shed . one end of the hose that was behind him got hung up as he exit ed the door . he pulled hard on the hose to free it . when the hose broke free , he lost his balance and fell hitting his arm on side boards of trailer .
employee having chest pains and already taken two nitroglyceran tablets .
during the pre-shift of the 1 east sub-mains . a roof fall was discovered int he no . 6 heading . the fall occurred at survey station no . 203 and measured approx 90'lx20'lwx4 to 10'h . there wer e no injuries or equipment involved and ventilation was not affected .
an unintentional fall occurred on the 2nd west travelway at the # 38 intersection . the fall was due to deterioration of the roof above the bolt anchorage . fall was 45 ' long and 18 ' long and 7 ' high
ee was rining bell wire when a rock fell from the rib , striking him in the r lower forearm .
ee alleges that as he opened the door of the mill office with his left hand , he stepped in and planted his right foot first . as he did , his foot slipped and twisted and his whole body twisted left and he lost his balance and fell with his back against the door .
a roof fall was discovered on this date 1/23/07 in the west mains # 5 entry between # 11 and # 12 cross-cuts . fall was discovered by the weekly examiner and reported immediately . the msha call center & district # 3 was notified at the time found . could not determine exact date or time of fall . no equip damage or injury . no disruption of ventilation .
employee was having symptoms of weakness and nausea . he sat down near his bucket . he reported to supervisor of symptoms and was sent to first aid room . emt noted disorientation . employee was transported to clinic . diagnosed with heat exhaustion , dehydration and dizziness .
on march 3 , 2006 employee started missing time from an accident occurring on 5/19/2005 . on that day he slipped and fell against the tail of the continuous miner while working on the trailing cable . he underwent surgery on march 3rd to repair a damaged rotator cuff . management was informed that ee was missing time on march 24 , 2006 .
ee was sitting on a 3 wheeler mantrip , when another ee was coming out and bumped mantrip with forklift , while making a turn .
ee is 72 inches tall , the seam height is about 60 inches , and the floor is relatively dry . ee was attempting to move the miner cable and waterline , while moving waterline/miner cable , ee felt a pain in his lower back and heard a pop in his back .
an inundation occurred on the 001-0 section . the crew of 9 men & the foreman were working the 7 a.m. shift in an area approx . 150 ' from the outcrop . the miner was trammed to the no . 4 room & 2 shuttle cars were loaded from the right side ofthe face . the miner penetrated a non permitted mine inundating the section with water which didn't pose any danger to the workers . cut sealed .
the ee cut his right forearm while moving rods . sutures were used to close the cut .
while attempting to unload a crude ore train car , ee strained back & rib cage . ee went to a chiropractor on 6-30 for a manual adjustment and ultrasound/electric stimulation .
as he was stepping out of cab , his foot slipped off the step and he fell to the ground , striking his head , right rib cage , right arm & elbow . ambulance took him to emergency room , stitches in h ead & first aid on ribs .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred during retreat mining and caught the continuous miner inby bridge and inby bridge carrier , one break outby spad # 3370. this occurred on 002 section
was exiting a backhoe , and struck head , while wearing a hard hat , on roof of cab.received bilateral c4 laminar fractures . employee did not report injury until 04/04/05 , and then said he did not know how he had done it . our industrial insurance carrier , aig , denied the claim originally . this was just overturned by the nevada state industrial commission .
ee was unloading the new screens when he grabbed a sharp edge on the side of the screen resulting in 9 stitches in his little finger-right hand . the screen company uses a shear to make the cuts on the screens
roof fall # 3 entry across from spad 2854. fall will not be cleaned up . it will be dangered off and timbered off . no ventilation disturbed . developed approx nov 2003 , fall is 60'x20'x8-10 ' , approx 8000 ' from face and approx 3000 ' from rt face
ee was stepping into filter house when his foot caught the bottom part of the door causing him to fall forward . he struck the left side of his face and ear on the angle iron that holds the filters in place , causing a laceration to the face and ear . he had surgery on his left ear on march 12 , 2010. his first full day of lost time is march 11 , 2010 .
injured was filling up a piece of equipment whenthe fuel nozzle flew back and hit him on the right side of the jaw causing a bruise .
a roof fall was found at 10:30 pm on 8/8/2004 . fall was in a four-way intersection of entry 4 at survey station 33+90 5rms ( mmu 006 ) . area was mined 4/13/2004 and had been supported with 4 ' full resin bolts . inconsistant rock thickness contributed to roof failure . no injury or property damage resulted . fall was adjacent to travelway . no cleanup is planned .
while cutting a pipe , the piece he cut rolled over and struckhis foot .
south mains 67 block # 10 heading 4-way intersection mmu 006 12 ft high x 20 ft wide x 20 ft long . type of supports : 12ft cable , acs jacks , 6 ft resin , 6 '' x16 '' plates , roof mats fall danger off , . additional roof supports set several fall .
iw was working building an underground seal . iw was prying a block loose and when the block came loose it cause the iw to fall .
ee stated that he was walking through an intersection when a piece of rock fell from the roof and struck him on the back . ee stayed underground until the end of his shift . ee was examined at t he hospital and all xrays were negative .
ee was handing screens from the lift basket to someone on the ground . he lifted the screen over his head and he hurt his neck .
ee was using a battery powered hand drill to install a spad in the mine roof . while drilling the hole a piece of rock ( 8 '' x 2 '' square ) fell from the roof striking him in the face resulting in a small piece of rock going behind his glasses . the piece of rock was captured under his eyelid . the rock was flushed out by a doctor and his eyes were coated with irritaion medication .
ee was starting to climb a ladder and run his head into ladder cage next to him . ee was wearing a hard hat and he jammed his neck . er gave him some muscle relaxers so thus constituting an msha reportable injury .
the ee was bolting the no . 2 left crosscut and had drilled the last roof bolt hole in the place . the coal height was too low in the area to put the 42 '' resin roof bolt in the hole . as he was bending the roof bolt slightly to get the bolt in the hole , he felt a pain in the right side of his lower back , near his rib cage .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in 6-north section ( rehabilitation area ) in # 8 entry , 3 blocks outby the face area , at station spad # 8332. it fell just above the 5 ' resin roof bolts . the l ength of the fall is 18 ' , and width is 9 ' . ventilation was not affected . 6-17-03 - additional material fell for 20 ' additional inby .
ee was exiting mine at end of shift . ee's pickup truck stalled ( quit ) coming up slope . service truck was summoned to tow pickup . ee was assisting hooking service truck to pickup . the service truck slid in gravel and pinned ee's right leg between service truck and pickup .
a non-intentional , non-injury roof fall occured at spad 2706 , the fall was in the intersection and through the left break . size of the fall measured 50 ' long x 4.5 ' - 5 ' thick x 7 ' -10 ' wide . roof support was 4 ' fully grouted 75 grade resin bolts . no equipment was involved . ventilation was not affected . fall will not be cleaned up .
caught rt . index finger between a bottom roller & the bed rail as he was throwing the bottom roller under the belt . ee went tothe dr. diagnosed fracture to tip of finger .
ee stated he felt pain in r. shoulder after throwing a piece of slate onto belt . diagnosed on 12/17/01 with torn ratator cuff from repetitive use of arm after years working as belt cleane r .
ee was making a belt splice . as he struck the crimping tool with the hammer , a small piece of the crimping tool came off and lodged in his left arm .
miner was injured on 1-22-02 he was given a full release from the er on 1-22-02. on 10-10-02 he had an operation to remove a mass that developedand will result in 10 restricted days .
ee was getting out of his coal truck to clean his windows after crossing the truck wash. he said his foot slipped off the bottom truck step landing hard on the ground . he said he fell backwards landing on his right hip . he had severe pain in that hip . he was taken to harlan arh emergency room , x-rayed and diagnosed with a large contusion , no broken bones .
ee was lifting a slab of sandstone up onto its edge to be split when ee sustained a sharp pain to lower back . physician diagnosis , lumbar strain
a fire started in the g pump power switch in the substation on 5300 level . the main breaker tripped thus putting out the fire . the mine was cleared of gases and returned to normal mining activity .
ee was driving a hauler . while being loaded . a big rock fell out of loader bucket and hit the off side of the bed causing a sudden jar .
during first mantrip into the mine , hoist brakes set suddenly , causing the shaft conveyance to stop abruptly .
employee and co-worker were making a mechanical splice on a roll of belt on the 1 a conveyor belt . ee was moving the plunger for the multidriver tool and was struck on his right index finger by a 4lb sledgehammer causing a fracture . co-worker was driving the plunger with the sledgehammer to set the rivets in the mechanical splice .
ee was sweeping gravel into a shovel held by a co-worker . when the shovel became full , co-worker lifted it up hitting ee's right hand . the shovel struck ee's middle finger causing laceration . the co-worker , a certified emt , cleaned , applied antibiotic ointment , & bandaged the wound . ee reported this 3 months later & wanted to have it looked at by a doctor .
employee was helping maintenance man remove the drive guard from the quicklime secondary crusher at our old plant site . this is a large and heavy guard . the unbolted guard slipped from its mou nting bracket falling onto employee's finger . this resulted in a fracture of the tip of the finger and a laceration requiring 5 stitches . employee returned to work after leaving hospital .
employee was coming out of a hole after fixing belt on the crusher hanging onto a piece of angle iron which broke and fell into his face . cutting ee above the left eye .
ee was rock bolting when he stepped on a rock and roller his ankle , which sprained the ligaments in the ankle .
ee alleges he was pulling belt to make set-up when he strained his back
what was believed to be plumes of smoke & steam were observed flowing from the slurry borehole that penetrates an area of the mine . this area is abandoned & is no longer ventilated . all underground personnel were evacuated from the mine & an investigation was started with mine mgmt. , msha , state & umwa representatives . the investigation is still ongoing .
stepped from a rail car and felt a twinge in r knee
employee was doing a preshift inspection of his equipment . he slipped and felt pain in his right knee . he was taken to a physician for treatment and referred to an orthopedic surgeon for further treatment .
employee was attempting to unwedge a stuck rock in the jaw crusher . the wedge slipped causing it to fly up , striking him in the face .
ee stepped on a rock & fell backwards on his back & hit rocks on the ground with his back
on 12-11-2000 , ee , while preparing to leave work , slipped on snowqy ground and fell on his lunch box . the fall resulted in 3 cracked ribs . ee did not notify his supervisor until 12-22-00. a re port was made out on 12-27-00 after an investigation by the superintendent and the main office received the report on 01-01-01 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 6th west headgate between # 2 and # 1 entry ( 6057 ' # 2 6090 '' # 1 ) . the fall was approx . 60'long x 18'widex 10'thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . it will not be cleaned up .
ee was asked to drive van 3269 down to the maint shop . she swung around a curve & lost control of the van after apparently spotting a deer in the haul road . the van slid sideways and tipped ov er on its top after hitting the berm .
after medical examination miner has sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis ( black lung ) notification letter from msha .
during a belt move the injured was trying to seperate two pieces of waterline . while pushing/ pulling he cut his hand on the edge of the waterline .
the ee was going up a set of steps and the tread broke cause him to fell backward and landing on the floor .
employee had been operating a 10 yard endloader that had a problem with the `` soft shift '' . this caused the machine to jerk more than normal when shifting from forward to reverse and vice versa . over a period of several days , this caused the employee's back to hurt . he saw physician on 9/15/03 and received osteopathic manipulative treatment .
employee was loading straps on the miner when ee cut their left wrist on a strap . received 10 sutures .
powderman was loading a face in the mine when a piece of rock slid down the face and cut his right arm about 2 '' about the wrist . the cut was about 1 1/2 '' long and severed a tendon . the room ha d been sealed with scratch marks on the face on about 6 '' center . loose material had been removed prior to the powderman starting work .
roof fall in back entry developed appx . one year ago , 3500 ' from working face .
while ee was exiting the cab of a cat 980 loader and climbing down the ladder , he placed his left foot on uneven ground & applied weight to it causing him to twist his ankle and fall to the gr ound .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the galatia north bleeder entry # 4 ( a ) 208 north . the fallwas approx . 150'long x 17'wide x 10'thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was sitting in seat of front end loader , had removed his coat and was twisting to hang coat over back of seat when he felt burning pain in his lower back . had slipped on ice while walking t o loader , but did not fall . ( did not seek medical treatment until 12/19/03 ) .
the individual fell and reached to grab self and cut left forearm on a piece of angle iron . stitches were required and ee was released to resume work 2 hours later .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on e-mains , # 5 entry in by spad 6494. it measured 12 ' high , 18 ' wide and 60 ' long
a roof fall was discovered 1 break inby spad 972 in # 3 entry . the estimated size of the roof fall measured 6 ' high , 18 ' wide and 20 ' long . no injuries were reported as a result of this roof fall .
ee was using a 8lb sledge hammer to dislodge material in loading pocket , pinched right index finger between structure & hammer handle . - fractured finger .
he was shovling out bc1 and perlite went into his eye .
ee was getting box of bolts off on a warehouse shelf . the box slipped out of his hand onto a storage pallet . he attempted to retrieve the box an dplaced his hand on protruding nail .
ee was pulling and jerking on an old piece of cable , wrapped around the ripper head of the miner , felt pain in lower back . ee did not miss work until 2-26-01 - 1st lost day .
off road haul truck rolled from parked position itno load out bin and smith setzer and sons occupied customer truck . bin and custoemr's truck were demolished .
apparently ee was moving down a drift when a fiber vent tube either fell or was hanging low enough to strike the cab area of the loader . there was muck in the tubing which may have caused a wright build up in the tube .
bottom door on a loaded rapid discharge air dump railcar was stuck in closed position . the ee inspecting the condition of the discharge piston placed his right-hand on the end of the piston sh aft . the door inadvertently opened with sufficient force breaking one bone of the right-hand below the little finger near the wrist .
ee was mixing grout to install grout rock bolts.water hose was laying on ground and had higher pressure . employee kicked valve on and whipping hose hit him in head multiple times while he trie d to catch it .
employee stated that he was rib pinning from the miner . when drilling into the rib , the ee was struck with a drill steel extension that came loose during rotation . he was struck in the face causing a laceration to the mouth area . the accident is still under investigation .
ee was granted an award of 5 % for occupational pneumoconiosis on 6-6-00 .
employee was changing out a box liner when the liner slipped and hit his ( l ) leg agove his ankle requiring stitches .
ee was hanging miner cable along with his co worker ee struck . he experienced pain in his back as a result of handling the cable .
ee felt a sharp pain on right groin area while picking up his tool box .
was shoveling material on steps at station # 3 when he slipped on a rock as he performed his assigned task . ee worked shift , the next shift . twisted ankle at home prior to going to dr. returned to work 1-12-01 on a dr. slip
ee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome of the right wrist .
ee was welding handrails on a walkway and was using a 6 '' grinder to grind the weld and debris got into right eye .
palletizer had a fault . ee went to see what fault was . bags jammed in layer forming area . ee entered palletizer to clear jam . didn't lock out palletizer . load plates in open position . ee stood on top of pallet being loaded . load plates closed on ee's legs . ee was taken to er , given first aid treatment/diagnostic procedure . diagnosed contusion to legs . put on restrictions
ee was plugging up out going 13,200 cat head transformer locate on bottom of b-shaft , aggravated lower back ( felt pain in lower back )
ee was replacing bag coder on palletizer and put little finger of right hand on frame of coder . a 100lb bag passed under coder pushing coder and frame pinching it between fram and crossbar . fi nger was released after bag passed through . taken to e.r . - finger was stitched and bandaged and employee released . employee did not lock out .
employee experienced shift change in his hearing . audio base line was set in 2000. he was tested on 11/5/2012 and a shift was discoverd in left & right ears . shift was determined to be occupational . he was retested on 11/6/12 . shift in left ear remained . right ear shift no longer present . baseline for left ear will be reset . scheduled to see ent on 11/21/12 .
ee was lifting a filter housing when he strained his left wrist .
ee had been cutting bolts off a 12 '' i beam with a cutting torch , after finishing his task he flipped up his shaded face shield and dust/debris got in his r. eye . ee was wearing both face shield and safety glasses . ee's eye was washed out on site then he was taken to clinic . the dr.removed 1 small object from r. eye .
ee was placing some clothing in cab of his service truck when he experienced pain in his back and legs . this should be recorded as an illness asthere is no trauma or mechanism of injury .
an ee was drilling a hole for a roof bolt , when a piece of roof slate fell striking him on the top of his right thumb . note : the ee waited until his next shift to seek medical treatment .
ee was using a cutting torch , cutting conduit off basewall and the conduit sprung loose and struck ee i the right leg .
while rock dusting belt hose got hung ee pulled hose went back hit ear on rock . did not get injury report until 1/31/01
employee was preparing to clean out traps of the washplant spirals when he fell down a trapdoor that had been left open by the previous shift
ee accidentally bumped tram lever which in turn permitted bolter to move onto foot .
ee fell while cleaning bottom of thickner at the prep plant . he strained his left shoulder in the process . ee started missing work on 9/10/07 due to left shoulder pain .
ee was walking in the course of his work duties.he reported he stepped on uneven ground and twisted his right ankle .
employee was welding on 3/15/16 & hot slag fell down sleeve causing a burn . on 3/23/16 , our employee notified us of this incident & sought medical treatment . ee was diagnosed with a burn & an infection .
a roof fall has occured in west main section ( mmu014-0 ) in the # 2 entry at spad # 71 & 25. the fall measures approx 20ft long , 20ft wide , 12-13 ft high . the fall approx 21oo ft outby the face
employee was loading anfo into one of the top holes of a heading being loaded . he was trying to insert the hose further into the hole by wiggiling it . while doing this the hose became caught . as he tried to free the hose he knocked a rock loose which fell and strugk his left forearm . the cut required stitches .
employee was loading rock when the 992 g slipped off a rock injuring his right rib cage .
ee was roof bolting when he bent over to pick up a roof bolt he felt a pain in his stomach .
ee stated that he was pulling jumper cables at the 5-a station for his ram car when he felt pain in his lower back . ( this accident was not reported until 9/5/06 ) .
north 3 21 block , x-cut 4 to 5 , spad 5043 support 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , roof mats , fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around the fall 20 ft long 17 ft wide 6 ft high .
ee knelt down to check oil in 4 wheeler when he felt a pop in his left knee . ee stood upright then knelt down again and felt another pop . he was treated and released at raleigh general with a follow-up on may 21 , 2010 with an orthopedic . he determined that the ee had a torn meniscus and performed a procedure to insert two staples .
employee was bent over attaching a welding cart to the mantrip when his back popped and he felt pain down his right leg . *started missing work due to this injury 8/7/06 . *
ee was changing the alternator and the genset rolled over and cut the tips of 2 fingers off ( first two fingers left hand )
ee stated that he jumped off the back of a digger truck . he did not use the steps and safety rails provided .
the ee was moving gas bottles and the bottle slipped and mashed his finger against the frame of the bottle rack .
injured was inside the plant warehouse . warehouse is located between the concentrator and pellatizer . injured was cutting a piece of rubber to patch a water hole with a knife . as he was cuting the rubber he cut his 3rd finger left hand .
employee was operating a roof bolter when the pinner steel broke and struck him in the mouth . employee immediately came out and went to vincennes hospital , sustaining a laceration that required 3 stitches . employee returned to work the following workday .
employee was sweeping dirt off catwalk of loader . as he stepped from catwalk to access ladder , his foot slipped , causing him to fall and land on the ground . sudden impact caused a sprian of le ft knee . first aid treatment and diagnosis was sufficient until nov 21 , 2001. a return visit to doctor was necessary .
ee working on screen when he slipped catching his left index finger in the screen causing the finger to break at the first joint .
ee was standing on the relay bar of shied # 3 , washing the shields when his foot slipped off of the relay bar and as he fell , he landed on his right leg which had folded up under him resulting in a stained knee .
ee was closing gate at the scrape yard & lost footing and fell . ee fell backwards to the ground landing on the left side of body . ee was taken to the er & was given 4 days off .
ee was working off step ladder when material above started falling , ee lost his footing and fell to the ground bending his thumb back .
ee was working in a revolving frame next to a welder and got a foreign body in right eye .
ee was walking to his car in the pakring lot , he slipped on ice and fell landing on his butt and arm .
ee was dismounting a personell carrier underground , while stepping off using 3 point contact , sprained left ankle . no loose rock was found in area of incident .
employee , plant utility operator , was performing part of essential job functions in the area of # 1 kiln dust bin , when an air line broke loose , allowing lkd ( lime kiln dust ) to spray in his eyes and face . employee is currently still hospitilized .
at approx . 11:20am on 11/30/17 , a fire was discovered at the primary mcc room . fire department was dispatched and arrived at 11:30am . due to fire involving switchgear & located next to 4160v transformer , firefighting activities were delayed until power could be de-energized . the fire was extinguished at 12:38pm , minutes after electrical services could arrive and disconnect power .
while climbing over a spider , the miner struck his leg on a rebar .
ee was lifting a bottle of oxygen onto a p/u truck .
ee was moving equipment & got hit in forehead with a cable
employee was carrying a 2 ' long 8x8 post to the location where he was working ; the post was wet due to recent rainfall in the area and slipped from his hands . he broke his finger when he trie d to catch the post before it hit the ground .
ee lost balance and fell from 6 ' stepladder , bruising back .
miner stated that ee was returning to ee's equipment when ee stepped in a rut and twisted ee's knee . the walking surface was dry .
vibrating grizzly feeder drive belt was slipping , employee climbed into the guarded location area w/o turning off the motor , slipped , braced himself on a c112 single v belt , that action started the belt again , right hand went through the pulley . no fingers lost , stitches on index finger as well as a burn . the x-ray showed nothing . seeing an orthopedic specialist on 6/15/15 .
during an msha quarterly exam of the hart st. elevator a malfunction occurred . they were in the process of testing the overspeed brakes , with the elevator traveling at full speed . when the brakes were set this caused one of the five elevator cables to come out of the sheave on top of the elevator cage .
employee struck bumper of truck with right knee on saturday . went to family dr on monday . still suffered from numbness and swelling , went back to doctor and was told to take off from work .
lumbosacral strain . incident occurred while ee was stepping from ladder to the ground .
while two mechanics were installing a 4 '' victaulic clamp onto a 4 '' elbow , the mechanic at the bottom of the ladder was hit by the falling clamp when it slip out of the hand of the mechanic on the ladder . the clamp bounced off the ladder and hit the mechanic in the mouth . he was taking to the hospital for stitches .
employee was helping change hammers in the hammer mill and when they were lowering the cover , he slipped and instinctively reached out to catch himself with his left hand . his fingers were caught between the hammermill lid and liner .
employee was helping pull miner cable back as the miner was moving . as he was pulling , a small piece of draw rock fell hitting the back of his leg , injuring his achilles tendon . the doctor ordered an mri and would not release employee to return to work until he saw the results .
ee was walking down a stairway transporting an induction fan . while carrying the fan he felt a strain in his back .
ee was walking around crusher . it had rained earlier . ee stepped into mus , lost his footing and fell hitting his right shoulder on the ground .
ee was pulling roof bolter cable and pulled a muscle in his hip .
the ee was operating a haul truck , when the loader that was loading her inadvertently struck the box of the truck causing the ee's head to strike the side of the cab . the ee was sent to the ho spital and diagnosed with a neck strain .
ee was using a amprobe bolt meter top test the fuses , when he touched one lead to the center section a flash occurred and burned his right forearm .
operating loader and bucket on loader came down fast and when he put bucket level control in locked position , bucket stopped suddnely , causing jarring effect to loader , injuring his back .
ee was using a box blade to cut a hole in a conveyor belt . the blade broke causing his hand to slip . he cut his left arm on the broken blade .
ee was trying to loosen up a bearing on the turbo splitter . pry bar slipped causing the ee to injure shoulder .
ground gave way - fell over 6 ft ledge - suffered a compound fracture at his left elbow
ee was drilling in rock to install roof bolt . piece of draw rock fell , hitting his upper left arm and cutting it . took 17 staples to close wound .
ee was cutting cable and in process cut left middle finger .
a roof fall outby 02 working section was discovered by shift foreman at # 1 entry , 1 block inby spad 5895. area was reported and cribbed and dangered off .
upon medical examination employee was diagnosed that he had suffieient degree of pneumoconiosis ( black lung ) .
frictional ignition occurred on the north 004 section approx 90 ' in the # 9 entry between block 37 & 38. operator saw an orange ball that started approx in the center of the cutter head & spread to the rt end . ball lasted approx 3 seconds . there was no pop just some smoke . no charring was found & the investigation determined that bits striking the sandstone caused the incident .
ee was welding and raised his hood to check work , someone near him was grinding and material was blown into ee's eye
ee was putting pull rope on miner conveyor boom , while putting on the pull rope the boom hit ee knocking him down into rib .
# 2 to # 3 entry , spad # 5499 + 5498 , 750 ' outby face to crosscut , approx 75'x18'x0-7 ' , no injuries , no blockage of vent + smokefree . rerouted from # 3 entry to # 2 entry around fall . no equip involved , pinned with 5 ' resin bolts + 8 ' to 12 ' cable bolts , will not be cleaned up , breakered , cribbed off and dangered
ee was installing a stainless steel d8sconnect box ( 18 '' x 48 '' ) at the north end of conveyor bc 460. he was removing the switch gear to position and attach the box to its supports . he removed h is gloves to get a better grip . when he pulled on the gear , his right hand slipped and the hand hit the box cutting the back of the hand below the little finger ( 7 sutures ) .
employee sustained a strain to his left knee that required the use of a knee immobilizer . he was walking from the lime area toward the railcar loading area when his knee popped and kept popping on consecutive steps . he was taken to the plant medical facility via plant ambulance and then referred to his own doctor . he returned to work with the knee immobilizer .
ee was in # 6 entry , 3 rows in 6r cross cut putting up torque tension bolts . a bolt head broke off in the pot . while removing the bolt head a piece of draw rock fell onto his back . x ray were negative .
worker was either breaking castable or welding on elevator buckets when something got in his eye . employee did not know that something was in eye until he awoke to find his right eye matted shut and puffy . worker was taken to eye doctor and given a prescription for eye .
two ee were removing belt structure . as the bottom roller was pulled , the h-beam moved causing the rail to fall . ee's hand was pinched between the rail and the bottom roller bracket .
employee was in the panline on the f-27 longwall face hooking the panline up to shield when a rock slid out of the face striking employee on the left lower leg causing right lower leg to strike the eiko track . on 2/28/2018 employee was diagnosed with a non-displaced fracture of the fibula & a partial tear of the lateral collateral ligament in right leg and began missing work .
while knocking brattice , a piece of slag rock rolled and struck ee on right foot .
while tightening traverse cable on dc-505 material fell from roof and lodged in my eye . tried flushing out , but had problems after work with irritution . went to eye dr on 6-19-03 .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the tilley section # 6 entry near spad # 2801. there is no active face , transfer system only . the fall measured 40 ' l x 20 ' w x 5 ' h. ventilation was not affec ted . all entrances to the fall have been breakered off and will not be rehabilitated .
the mantrip motor that employee was working on slipped off its blocking & mousetrapped his little finger between the frame & blocking .
ee was changing a bearing at the kiln . the wind was blowing quite hard & something got in his eye .
employee's right hand 5th digit became pinched between a conduit bender and a tailgate as ee and another employee attempted to manually unloaded from ee's truck bed .
employee was discarding old troughing roller into metal waste bin when it slipped out of employee's grip and pinched left 4th finger between the roller and the bin . employee received stitches and returned to work on full duty
ee was removing drill steels from on top of a cover on the roof bolter to make repairs to the machine . as he lifted 3 drill steels up and went to slide them towards the back of the machine , he felt a sharp pain in his back .
employee stated after t bar was set , ee walked forward to swing boom outward to install ee's rib bolt . a piece of draw rock 6'l x 3'w x 2 '' t fell on ee's back forcing ee to the ground . once ee caught self with ee's hands , the rock slid down ee's back striking ee's right hand causing bruising . employee was transported to doctor for x-rays which were negative for any fractures .
ee was fueling the loader when she stepped down on the berm around the fuel tank , she lost her balance and fell backward , injuring her left wrist .
an employee suffered a fatal heart attack while palletizing stone . ( found injury laying on the ground adjacent to 3 pallet of rock he had been palitizing . unresponsive . cpr was performed ems service were called and continued cpr . the sheriff prounced the miner dead approx . 12:05 pm msha was notified 12:52 pm ) by misc mail 4/28/09 # 3 .
while trying to remove the value cap from the air stem from a 651 e scraper tire . the valve stem became loose and was ejected under pressure . sand blasting his right palm and wrist . ee was c hecking the air pressure of the tires .
climbed steps onto loader , slipped catching ribson ladder .
ee was aligning a conveyor truss section when he got his finger caught between the truss section and the handrail .
as injured was working on the shield attempting to pull the panline back . the shield was not firmly against the top due to the height . when panline was pulled , the shield moved forward pinchin g his ankle between the panline and shield . taken to hospital , diagnosed with contusion .
ee was driving down a hill at mead zimm pit when he lost control and landed in a ditch . excessive speed was the cause of the accident .
was pulling h v cable - slipped & fell against mine floor & pulled back muscle .
ee was handing 6 # sledge to man on walkway above him . sledge hammer dropped 18 inch to top of ee head .
an employee went to tell victim some informationon a railroad car ; while he was speaking , the victim told him he was having chest pains and thathis right arm was going numb . victim was in the hydrate department watching the slurry pump at this time . the company is not anticipating this to be a worker's comp claim .
ee was using a # 20 sledge hammer and felt pain after repeated use .
dozer was cleaning the highwall and over extended and material gave out and caused the dozer to slide and over turn one time . the operator was thrown in the floor and suffered five broke vertebrae , two broken ribs , punctured stomach , bruised intestines , cut on the ear , and a broken foot .
while loosening a bolt with an impact wrench the bolt spun and cut employee's left middle finger . fingr required stitches . employee was not wear gloves .
employee was walking from # 3 scale to the packhouse pump room when he stepped on a piece of pipethat was partially buried in the ground . when hedid so , he twisted his left ankle and knee . employee missed no work until 12-19-01 when he went off for corrective knee surgery .
ee was working on a ladder . he reached for his meter when he and the ladder both fell 8 ' to the ground . he hit his right shoulder on a pipe and then landed on his left shoulder .
ee was cleaning under a screen when 3 rocks fell onto his right shoulder blade .
ee states that while climbing ladder on water truck , he began to experience pain in left shoulder , neck and chest .
while operating the head gate drum of the 16i longwall a piece of rock flipped off of the drum and struck the employee on the left hand . causing a fracture on his left hand .
the section is pillaring and the ee had cut some timbers for a breaker line . as he was throwing the timbers out of the scoop bucket onto the rib in the no . 1 heading , he pulled a muscle in his lower back . the ee stated he twisted his body when he threw the timber . the timber measured approx . 56 '' long x 4 '' square .
2 south section , roof fall occurred # 4 entry x-c 42 in a 3 way intersection 25'w x 30'l x 18 ' hi . a x-c was turned just inby a known fault area . area bolted with 8 ' tension rebar full grout bolts .
ee stated he struck his head against a low hanging roof bolt .
ee was shoveling under tailpulley and peace of wire stuck in his thumb left hand .
ee was making a hammer splice in the belt . he hit the splicing tool with a 41 lb shop hammer and a piece of the hammer broke off , striking him on the right arm , above the elbow .
a roof fall occurred in the 2 north panel in # 3 entry in the pillarline between cross-cut # 22 and cross-cut # 23 continuing through the pillarline between cross-cut # 24 and cross-cut # 25 measuring 120ft . x 19ft . x 5ft . this area was mined in august 2004 and supported with 5ft . fully grouted roof bolts . this fall was caused by an undetected slip .
ee was finishing up pressure washing at the aggregate plant and was winding up the pressure hose . he moved up against the single axle tag along trailer and the jack for the trailer fell off and the ball hitch fell on his foot . the jack was not securely fastened to the trailer properly
ee was pushing 12 '' pipe away from vessel with two other ee's- the left thumb was caught between pipe and i beam-smashing the left thumb
a roof fall in # 11 xcut of # 3 entry . main east measuring 40 ' long x 16 ' wide x 7 ' high .
ee was operating a roof bolter , and as he swung the drill boom over to position it for the next bolt , the drill steel hit the top and flipped out of the drill chuck and struck him on the right index finger , causing a fracture .
ee was operating a small bobcat front end loader . while doing so the ee was having to frequently twist his torso to look over his shoulder to see where he was going as he backed the front end loader . this repeated twisting aggrevated a previous shoulder injury . the ee reported the injury 12/08/03 . he was placed on modified duty on 12/15/03 .
ee was tightening impactor bolts with a ratchet . the ratchet slipped a tooth and had no tension when ee pulled on ratchet he hit his elbow on side of impactor fracturing his elbow .
injured was helping another employee work on a pan scraper at heber springs quarry . he was performing normal mechanic duties at the time . he didnot report any injury on the day of occurrence . reported late because we tried to deny that the back problems were work related .
was stepping off of the pump barge , slipped , andhand grabbed the rail that had a sign attached to it and the ring on his finger popped off , ripping the finger open .
employee was getting out of a scoop on south a track . the employee slipped and fell catching himself with his left hand resulting in a fractured wrist . the cause of the accident was the employee's lack of awareness to his surroundings . ppe was not a factor , mining systems may have been a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , miner proficiency may have been a factor .
ee was climbing dow3n the steps of the 928 cat front end loader . his foot slipped off the step . he couldn't hold himself with the handrails . he fell on his left knee to the ground .
ee was shoveling on the slope belt , when he was hit on the elbow by a rock .
while using scoop to hold down on belt drive , the bucket of scoop slid off of belt drive causing the ee to strike his head on the back of the operators deck .
miner was dismounting from cab of drill when the grab bar broke loose and he fell backward approximately 4 ft onto his bottom , back and head . his head struck the ground and causing a laceration and bruise .
while the ee was moving barrels he felt a pop in his right hand .
employee was entering cement silo # 2 through a manhole to perform necessary maintenance when dust circulating inside the silo got in his eyes and he lost footing . his feet slipped off manhole and he pulled his right shoulder when he caught himself . ee saw doctor on 4-12-02 and was placed on light duty .
ee has a reportable hearing loss . ee experienced a reportable injury to his right ear on 10/17/05 .
ee was loading roof bolter when a rock fell from between roof bolts , hitting him in the arm , hip & lower lip requiring 2 sutures to his lower lip .
ee was helping on the continuous miner in the # 6 entry of the 002-0 mmu , when a piece of draw rock fell from between the side bolt and coal rib and struck him on the right side and hip . the rock was approximately 54 '' long x 30 '' wide x 2 '' -4 '' thick .
the ee was working to clean rock out from the belly pan of a dozer . this task required the ee to lie on a piece of cardboard and move around underneath the equipment . while working on the dozer ee began to feel pain in his right leg . the ee reported he had originally injured his leg on 3-7-04 when he struck his leg on the fender of the 990 loader .
employee clamped piece of sealtite in vise and held loose end with pair of pliers in order to cut with hacksaw . hacksaw bound as he neared end of cut and the blade jumped up and cut his left hand between third & fourth fingers . required 3 stitches to close wound .
employee was walking across the concrete pad at the screening plant when he slipped on a thin layer of wet hectorite clay and fell . his right leg slipped placing a sudden stress on his left leg and resulting in an injury . the diagnosis was a strained quadriceps with minor tears . the leg was put into a rigid leg brace and the employee was temporarily reassigned to restricted duty .
a hydraulic hose on the employee's service truck outrigger got caught . the employee reached in to free the hose . ee began to retract the outrigger to gain slack in the hose and did not realize that a hand was in a pinch point . the outrigger broke several bones in the left hand .
while ee was maneuvering the oil pan out from under a wabco 190 , the pan hung up on a fitting . the pan shifted during the attempt to free it , pinching and fracturing the ee's left middle finge r .
injured ee was struck on the foot while putting a piece of drill steel in the drill carousel .
ee was struck by a roof bolt plate on the left elbow as he was attempting to seat the bolt in the boom . ee suffered a laceration which required ( 3 ) sutures to close the wound .
the operator received notification on 5-28-02 that ee has a sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis to be eligible for part 90 rights .
reportable roof fall 4 blocks inby 1sout switch # 3 entry track at spad # 22944 .
miner operator had gotten off the miner to adjust the vent tube . as he returned to the moiner , he slipped , he reached to catch himself grabbing the bolter support and his fingers was caught be tween the jacks , pinching his fingers .
section c-9 . on 11/01/06 , an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 3rd sub-main return # 7 entry , 63 cross cut . this roof fall was supported with 10 ' & 15 ' point anchor roof bolts . the roof fall measured 25 ' long x 18 ' wide x 10'-15 ' high . the roof fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
on 8/9/2011 the 3rd shift fireboss discovered a fall at 7:25 am . the fall is located between spad # 120 and 121 between the # 6 and # 7 entries . the fall measured approximately 18 ft wide x 40 ft long x 6-7 ft high . this area was bolted with 5 ft fully grouted bolts .
accident report 5/23/01 . loader was pushing truck in loose sand & gravel , bucket slipped off ap ron on back of truck striking frame and causing sudden movement . operator's head hit back of gla ss of truck .
ee alleged he strained his back when he was adjusting his seat in the rock truck he was operating . he began missing work on 12-8-00 .
an unintentional roof fall occured at the new era mine at the 6 north headgate @ 3070 n , crosscut 45 between entry # 2 & entry # 3 ( continuation ) . the fall was of unknown length , approx . 18 ' wide and of unknown thickness . the fall did not affect passage of men . the fall will not be cleaned up .
while pulling ovrsize rockout of jaw with chain chain slipped off rock while reattaching chain around rock ee lost balance & fell approx 10ft head first into the jaw crusher hitting head & s houlder
ee was walking and stepped on a small rock causing him to turn his ankle .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the no.6 seam 1e tailgate # 4 entry . the fall was approx . 10 ' long , approx . 17 ' wide and aprox . 4 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of men . the fall will be cleaned up .
employee was hgelping take bolts out of flop gate motor when jack swung down and struck him on left middle finger .
ee was attempting to restart # 2 dorrco filter vacuum pump when he turned the start/stop switch to the `` on '' position . ee received an electrical shock and a slight burn to his right forefinger a nd thumb . ee is not losing any time and is not on work restrictions .
operator was wearing safety glasses with side shields but small particles managed to get into his left eye . no lti or restricted duty . prescriptions for eye drops only .
the alleged incident occurred on 6-5-03 when the ee was dismounting the cab of his lube truck when his right foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground striking left elbow . ee continued to work regular duties until 7-22-03 at which timehe was placed on restricted work activity by a medical specialist .
ee was carrying trash cans out of generator house , he missed a step and fell forward onto the ground . he put his hands down to break the fall and broke left wrist .
ee and co-worker had completed splicing a 13.8kv power cable , were cleaning up and discussing what to do next . ee was leaning on the hood of their mantrip when a rock fell from the roof , strik ing ee's left elbow causing a laceration that required sutures .
a kink was found in the crabapple hoist rope during regular inspection . the kink was found 16ft from the hoist car . the hoist was taken out of service and reterminated .
individual and other ee were attempting to jump start truck . he began to walk along the frame to check the connections when he stopped on the battery cover that was laying on the fender . it wa s too dark to see where he was stepping . he fellto the ground approx 4 ft and hurt his ribs laying on the ground .
employee was attempting to open the slide plate on the ground lime screw conveyor . he was pounding on the plate with a hammer when it came loose causing a burst of lime dust . lime dust got int o both eyes . employee immediately flushed his eyes . he did seek medical attention .
unintentional roof fall occurred on 1-a northwest mains , # 4 entry , spad # 3332 , 920 ' outby 005 mmu , 30 ' long x 19 ' wide x 8 ' high . bolted with 6 ' torque tension and 8 ' point anchor bolts , fall was breakered off .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal at the 5n headgate entry # 1 , 193 south . the fall was of unknown length , unknown width and unknown thickness . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will not be cleaned up . fall # 22z .
an unintentional roof fall measuring ~50 ' long , 18 ' wide , up to 5 ' high in the no . 4 belt entry of sw mains just outby spad 3269. area developed3/31/96 & was located about 5,800 ' from the near est working face . no injuries , disruption in ventilation or passage of men affected by the fall .
ee was a passenger in a mantrip traveling to the c-2 longwall panel . when the mantrip arrived at the 8 left track switch it derailed and it landed on the mine floor . the impact caused a sudden pain in his neck and back . he is scheduled to begin a series of physical therapy treatments for this injury .
ee had placed a piece of ar plate steel onto thetipple to be welded in and had placed another plate on it to hold it in place and the piece fell off striking the ee on the foot , behine the steel toe protection . the blow shattered the little toe on his lt. foot .
employee was mixing cement mortor to use for the new installation of the outbound truck seale for the napa quarry . a square end margin trowel was being used as a mixing tool . while mixing the mortor with his left hand the employee felt pain in his left wrist that radiated up to his elbow . the injury was diagnosed a left wrist strain on 7/14/06 and ee was placed a modified duty
ee was holding clasp on cable while another was driving a wedge out . the wedge and cable hit ee on right foot , severely bruising it .
employee was walking into work from parking lot and tripped on uneven pavement , falling to knees , bracing with left arm . employee iced knees and shoulder for a couple of weeks . on 11/10/17 , ee went to urgent care clinic , was referred for therapy on shoulder and retractions . notified company 11/13/17 . currently ongoing .
the ee was performing maintenance on the hydraulic system of the water truck . while tightening a fitting on the tank , his wrench slipped and he struck his right hand and wrist on the tank fram e .
working pullin pushing gripping , began exhibiting symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome .
ee hit himself on the left thumb with a hammer while tightening bolts .
ee was gettint compression cylinders out of the fog room . he lifted the cylinder at an awkward angle and strained back .
ee was operating a miner when he was struck on right shoulder by a rib roll .
ee stated he jammed his neck when descending fixed ladder lid shut hitting his hard hat
making splice on 3i belt , as he was pulling on utility knife to cut belt , it slipped out of belt and cut right knee . needed sutures to closecut .
a non injury roof fall was located on the prehshift exham . the fall was 24 ' long 201 wide and 0-4'thick .
employee was standing in track entry directing the lo-trac operator as operator was picking up cable bolts and when the lo-trac turned , it accidently pushed track rail into the left ankle of the employee standing causing fracuture to ankle .
cleaning chunks of ammonium nitrate out of the hopper on a repump unit , cut right arm and hand on the edges of the hopper .
this accident did not happen on the mine site . contributing factors were : rough walking surface ( grating ) worker stumbled on grating while desending railcar . injuries : 3 fractures on right foot . involved railcar nahx 60563
ee was working with other ee to install handrails at the construction site . he attempted to move a handrail without assistance and strained his back . ee did not seek medical attention until 8 aug 03
while attempting o open top door of railcar , ee strained back . door may have been frozen to car .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the # 1 section at the # 11 entry at spad # 4077. the fall measured 20 ft by 20 ft by 10 ft .
mechanic broke left middle finger tip when the wind caught the door of a jlg man lift slamming it on the finger tip . mechanic's hand was placed on the hinge side of the door frame and the mechanic was wearing leather work gloves .
ee was standing against tool shed when four- wheeler rolled forward hitting his leg causing a laceration that required stitches .
ee was putting up a bolt . his foot slipped and he grabbed for something to keep him from falling . he got his hand on the drill pot as it went up . the pot pushed his hand against the roof and c ut off his right index finger .
driving pers carrier and drove over gob on ribline and steering wheel spun causing his left arm to twist hurting his left elbow .
ee was helping put in bottom idler , picked up belt and was holding idler up with pipe when he felt a burning in stomach , then a knott popped out around his navel .
ee strained his right elbow while installing pipe at plant 2 tube mill building .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia north portal on the main north travelway , crosscut # 31. the fall was approximately 20 ' long , approximately 18 ' wide and approximately 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 21t
ee was cutting a bolt off a chain with a torch . he then grabbed the hot chain with his left handhe was not using gloves ( which are provided ) . hesuffered burns to the palm & fingers of his hand
while picking up a 50 lb bag of powdered chemical , the ee felt something pop in his wrist .
with a hand shovel , and not wearing gloves , ee scouped up a shovel full and swung forward and with his bare right hand hit a piece of metal , slicing the skin requiring 5 stitches .
employees were changing cutting edges on wa500 komatsu.they were loosening bolts with a 1 inch air gun . the bolts started turning all the way . the injured ee went to push the bolt in place with his hand & other employee hit the gun & the bolt started spinning & cut his index finger on his left hand . doctor applied stitches to finger .
employee was tightening segment bolts on a dozer sprocket and the socket adapter broke causing the employee to strike his arm on the dozer frame . the employee reported the incident and finally asked to see a doctor in august . he finally got a doctor's appointment in september and the mri showed a rotator cuff tear and was reported to the mine on september 15 .
ee was assisting another ee in removing a dust collector bag from 510 dc on the 3rd floor from east to west . as ee was pulling to remove the inner screen , his right hand slipped causing his ri ght elbow to strike the inner door latch .
ee was checking gallons in tank of gasoline out- side while climbing down ee fell and scraped below right knee . ee fell on right leg causing bruising and swelling on right leg . transported self to hospital not a serious accident .
employee was using 385 excavator to pull down material from a 50 ft bench . a single 5-6 tn boulder which had been contained within the face of the material above , toppled off the top while the operator was swinging the excavator . the rock struck the tracks first , then upward into the front end of the cab . case just became reportable when employee needed to seek physical therapy .
ee and two others were working in the tunnel in the quarry trying to raid the gate for the tail-pulley . when it became unstuck , ee's hand got stuck between the gate and the wall . the other two rushed to help free ee's hand using a piece of 2x4 wood to pry ee's hand out . it took about 3 minutes to free ee's right hand ; ee's thumb was numb .
a roof fall occured in the # 9 seam in the 2 main north at crosscut # 13 in the pillar line between # 5 and # 6 entries . the fall measured approximately 30'x18'x6 ' . the area was supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
while coming around a corner on his shuttle car his slack cable became stuck on his car . the ee stopped and backed up a little while using his foot to unhook the cable and he accidently coasted forward catching his left hand between the car and the corner of rib .
employee was assisting in installing a final drive on a hitachi 1800 back-hoe when he mashed his left thumb .
while putting shrink wrapped bags on pallets , hegot sand in his left eye .
employee was attending annual safety retraining . during lunch break , two employees were `` horse playing '' . ee attempted to pick up another employee and throw him over his shoulder . both employees fell to the ground , causing ee to dislocate his hip .
employee missed the step while walking up the stairs into the offices . employee injured shoulder but did not seek medical treatment until 2/4/2013 . ee was placed on restricted duty .
unplanned roof fall occurred in 2nd south east submains , xc 90 , entry # 3 , ( 26+20 ) . the fall was on a pump discharge line and pump power cable . it was approx . : 20 ' long x 17 ' wide x greater than 6 ' .
employee was assisting in tramming feeder off tailpiece . feeder cable fell & struck ee .
lowering groute pan ( empty ) back into the floor of quarry . a piece of lift hole steel rod was laying near the spot where the pan was going to sit in the rock . the pan sat on one end of the ste el rod . the other end of the rod came up and hitledge man on his right upper arm .
operating dozer , ripping material . when backing up , went over rock with dozer and jarred back . *original edoc # 253218*
ee was cutting a right hand xcut in # 7 entry at the time of this incident . he stated that the entry had been slabbed and bolted and he was in the process of making the 2nd cut . a rock measurin g 18 ' x 25 ' x 4 '' thick fell from between the roof bolts and struck ee on the calf muscle of his right leg this caused a deep contusion to his leg muscle .
ee was rock dusting on top of overcast , coming down stepped in hole hitting shin on water fittings .
when ee was done loading a pebble truck , he was walking to the miracle plant and slipped on the ice , resulting in pulling a groin muscle .
was cleaning under pc-1 conveyer . rock fell fromfeed and struck his back . company has installed roof over area to protect employees when cleaning area .
individual was attempting to pull a matrip to motor barn with another mantrip . the mantrip being towed derailed in a curve and landed on his right foot resulting in fractures . individual was communicating with operator of the other mantrip while standing beside the mantrip .
the employee was using a hammer to remove a wedge bolt on a crusher . the hammer struck the side of the crusher moving the direction of travel hitting his left wrist . the employee did not seek medical treatment until 8/3/04 . the diagnosis was a contusion to the wrist , no modified duty , but he recieved a perscription for swelling .
ignition - occurred on the no . 12 section as the continuous miner was cutting bottom in the no . 2 face curtin side , when a bleeder in the mine floor was ignited . the flame lasted 30 seconds or less and was extinguished with water from wash down hose .
on 6/7/2016 a roof fall was discovered in an area of the mine that is not normally traveled . the fall was located on the 2a west parallel submains at break 15 in a cross-cut between the number 6 and 7 entry . the fall area was breakered off .
ee was pulling screens out from under the sideboards , when he felt a strain in his right arm . reportable lost time injury as of 5/27/08 .
employee was running the shearer when a rock came down between jacks and hit his finger , cutting it on the panline .
while unloading truck noticed dockboard screw was out of place and wedged under dockboard . remove screw and dockboard mashed finger .
ee was blowing off the lime that was on top of an environmental tarp of a loaded truck . when he started blowing the lime off the wind started blowing and blew the lime back into his face and the lime came in behind his safety glasses and got into his eye .
while walking down steps at draw of tunnel ee caught his foot between steps causing him to fall forward , breaking foot bone .
ee received a .18 % permanent diability award for noise induced hearing loss .
ee was operating a track dozer , pushing overburden to an electric shovel , while in reverse motion , the ee hit a large rock that jolted him as his dozer went over it .
ee states she was sweeping floor and stepped backwards out of entrance , causing her to twist ankle due to difference in elevation . placed on restricted duty .
a roof fall was discovered in xc-39 , between entries 1 & 2 in the lw-304 tailgate . this fall is an extension of one that occurred on 6/05/09 . the fall was rib to rib , measuring approximately 19ft w by 9 ft h. the length could not be determined as it closed off access to this x-cut . the next isolation stopping was installed to remove this from the active workings .
ee was swinging a sledge hammer at a steel wedge . the hammer glanced off causing the ee to cut his left hand on the steel wedge .
ee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome of the left wrist . ee began missing work on 8/28/08 for surgery .
a fall of the roof occurred in the south east life of mine mains c at crosscut 426 in the # 4 entry . ventilation , men nor equipment were involved .
dismounting haulage truck access ladder at end of shift and slipped on the last step , hyperextending left knee . after several weeks of littl improvement in condition , physical therapy was pres cribed by physician .
ee stated he removed belt framing from belt trailer . he dropped a piece of belt framing on top of his right foot causing swelling and appearance of a contusion to employee's entire foot . started missing work on 3/20/08 , returned to work on 3/25/08 .
ee was working with his crew to repair the main clinker elevator . sometime while using a 3-ton chain hoist . he apparently strained his upper back . between the shoulder blades . he had been reac hing overhead and pulling hard . the incident occurred on 10-28-00. the ee did not see a dr until 11-6-00 and missed his first shift of work on 11-8-00 .
carrying megavac hose to roof bolter and felt pain in back .
lifting one end of a 20 ' long joint of pipe from the mine floor on to a rack on the fork scoop . while lifting the end of the pipe struck the scoop fender causing the pipe to fall and injured p ulled his right bicep muscle when he tried to catch the falling pipe .
employee felt pain in lower back after picking up a piece of belt structure in supply yard . ee informed me on 4/7/05 that he started missing work on 4/1/05 .
the injured ee had relocated his keyboard to the top of his desk in his office . the use of his keyboard in this position resulted in his wrist being placed on the edge of his desk during data entry . the awkward position caused irritation to the tendons in his right wrist and forearm .
while going to muck a pile , the loader entered the pile and struck a large object , possibly a ledge or a boulder . this jarred the fel and the impact caused the operator to experience significant pain in the back .
ee was cleaning up loose coal in front of tail piece , moving coal to # 1 entry to dump . when he changed direction of travel returning to tailpiece , he hit a rock , pushing him into top .
at 1700 hours on 07/19/2011 a roof fall occurred at x-cut # 106 of the headgate unit in # 3 entry in the intersection . mmu-001 unit . the fall is about 18 foot by 18 and 10 foot high in the intersection .
ee got dust in his eyes while air arcing .
while in the process of removing a wedged bag from the packer line ee picked up the bag and felt a pop in his left upper arm . he has torn his bicep .
restacking 100 lb bags of pool mix from one defective pallet to a good pallet . picked up a bag and felt a sharp pain on his lower back .
ee was changing a bearing on a belt head roller , when he pinched his left index finger while manually rolling a chain sprocket .
supervisor was trying to pull belt over while pulling on it with a rope & sheave . he got his fingers in the sheave wheel . cause of this injury was awareness & an unsafe act . compliance with ru les/regs was a factor ; personal safety equipment was a factor ; miner proficiency & attitude was a factor ; mining systems is a factor .
unintentional fall of the mine roof located in the # 3 entry at crosscut 98 on the 9 left panel at spad # 202. the fall is 19 ft wide , 10 ft high and 90 ft long and is 550 ft from the working section .
ee faxed us a form from his doctor ( bogue chiropractic ) . this was the first we heard of the injury . he was claiming this was from a prior injury and it has been decided as a new injury to his back resulting from shoveling .
ee alleges to have injured his back underground . he doesn't know how or when . management was notified on 8/9/02 of this alleged injury .
employee was helping the miner change places . he was lifting the miner cable and placing it against the rib out of the haulway when he hurt his shoulder and arm . he didn't miss any work until december 21 , 2004 when he went to see the doctor .
on 12/21/00 ee slipped on patch of ice & snow while walking on side of haul trk . ee did not wish to seek med attention at that time . on 1/3/01 ee went to chiropractor for med attention wit hout our knowledge
while reaching for a piece of steel ee slipped & caught himself with his left arm , staining his lt. shoulder . ee was seen at hospital & medication was prescribed for shoulder/muscle strain & spasm . reporting due to medical treatment modified duty & prescription medications .
while boarding the drill employee heard and felt a pop from his left knee . on oct. 20th an mri revealed a torn medial collateral ligament and medial meniscus .
ee was checking belt rollers along the south 60 belt . he got too close to a roller and caught his left thumb between the top roller and belt . no damage to mining equipment or operations . the e mployee suffered a distal fracture to his left thumb and lost his fingernail .
a roof fall occurred one break out by spad 497. the fall measured 20 ' wide 20 ' long and 5 ' thick .
ee was unplugging coal auger and couldn't reach all the plugged material . added air to it and a burst of fire burned ee on face . ee was prescribed ointment for 1st degree burns thus constituting msha reportability .
on 9/1/06 , ee was using a sledge hammer to drive a center pin on an equalizer bar on # 621 d11r . a small sliver of the pin broke off and entered ee's right arm .
employee was clearing brick sand chute and accidently ran his thumb over a sharp piece of steel . thumb was cut and required two stitches
employee was hammering a tooth on an excavator bucket when a piece of metal broke off and became airborn , striking employee resulting in a minor laceration to the abdomen approximately 3/8 '' in length
ee was sitting on the rib eating his lunch , a piece of coal blew out hitting his rt . hand .
ee was walking down steep grade , slipped & fell on right hand/wrist area .
employee was on ee's grease truck , pumping grease in barrels . ee had 3 point contact but lost ee's grip with right hand , causing ee to fall from 4th step , landing on frozen ground . ee's right shoulder was injured , with bruising & swelling . doctor has ee off work .
the employee stated was loading bolt supplies when ee felt pain in groin . the employee later sought medical attention and was diagnosed with a hernia . the incident became a lost time injury on 7/15/2016 .
while cleaning inside the prep plant elevator shaft , the employee was struck on top of his head by a falling object ( 2 '' victaulic coupler ) that was used in the area to secure the elevator door in the open position .
employee was chipping concrete from a compressor mcc wall when a foreign object struck and enetered eye just above safety glasses . employee did not report incident until following morning when he experienced irritation and redness .
employee had attached chain being used to pull power cable to his seat in the bus . the seat cameloose throwing him into the dash .
shaft hoist developed a noise in the gear reduced area . we decided to shut the hoist down to find the cause . at start of shift next day the master mech investigated and found the brake was mak ing the noise . the brake was changed out and it was operational by 11 am 3-22-02 .
ee was performing maintenance duties welding in a coal handling chute . he had raised his welding hood to clean slag from a weld . while doing this , a piece of slag entered his eye under his saf ety glasses .
a piece of rock fell from the rib and hit ee on the left ankle . he has a fractured ankle and is working at a restricted duty status .
ee was removing a chain link , he struck the pin with a hammer & it shipped . a small piece struck him in the left forearm . required one stitch .
employee was lifting a 300 gallon tank with a truck mounted crane . the tank was lifted to clean some stones from under the tank . injured reachedunder the tank while it was being lifted when th e chain on the tank slipped dropping it on his his hand . it broke the tip of his ring finger and cut his little finger . \
worker was cutton on an uneven surface , he slipped and the torch crossed over his gloved hand and as a result he received a burn to his hand .
the ee was called to jump start a grader , the employee went to open engine cabinet door . the door sprung open striking the employee in the mouth and causing a chip in the employee's front two teeth .
ee & co-workers were in the process of cleaning rock off of the lw head drive . member was lying on his belly with upper body positioned under the # 2 lw shield . a rock approx 8 '' x 6 '' x 1/2 '' fell off the shield tips striking his right calf . he walked to the mantrip & was brought to the surface . he was taken to boone memorial . he was diagnosed with a deep contusion to right calf .
climbing down ladder on cat 771d ( eqp # 313 ) , slipped and banged up knee on the steel ladder .
using high power water gun ( woma 400 psi ) to remove material buildup on # 3 tower slope . ee twisted to straighten woma gun hose ; slipped and fell on wet dust covering deck .
ee was installing a bolt when a piece of draw rock fell from the top and hit him on the left arm . he received 9 stitches .
ee states that while lifting a heavy wrench he noticed some stiffness & soreness developing in his lower back .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred in the south east main return , entry # 7 x-cut 32+20 . the cause of the roof fall was laminated and unconsolidated shale above the anchorage point . the area had 6 ' fully grouted rebar roof bolts installed for roof support .
injured was crossing over a dollie tongue when his boot got caught on the dollie tongue . he fell forward landing on his knee and catching himself with his hands . the fall caused him to twist or jerk his back .
injured was bent over near the ground when some cap rock fell near last row of bolts and caused the ventilation tubing to fall and strike injured on the hard hat . no reportable treatment rende red until 6-18-01 . ( injury became reportable on 6-18-01 when physical therapy started ) .
employee was holding the lid of a powder box open on a mobile powder truck . another employee in the manbasket swung the basket to the side pinching the injured employees left hand between the boom and the door of the powder box . there was 14 sutures placed in the laceration and he was released full duty .
running a burner on a granite bench and the bench slid down 20 ' taking equipment & ee .
ee was standing on old conveyor belt when the belt came apart & ee fell to floor . he was taken to ellington er on 7-8-07 & released to return to work . he was taken to co. dr. for follow-up on 7-9-07 where he was prescribed pain med . & muscle relaxer . he continued to complain of pain & was taken back to co. dr. on 7-10-07 where add'l x-rays were taken . ee was released to full duty .
ee states `` could only use right hand to pull himself up onto the truck . put right foot in step on fuel tank , reached up and grabbed bar . as he was pulling himself up , his foot slipped & his whole body shiftedto the right & he fell across the fuel tank .
ee cut his leg using a chainsaw
injured was exiting the mantrip and lost his balance and fell to the ground , twisting his right ankle . he was taken to hospital emergency room where he was examined , xrayed and referred to o ur company dr. and put on restricted duty from work . the xrays were negative and no lost time . on 10-15-02 he was seen by our company dr. and was released to return to work with no restrictio
ee was on top of quicklime storage/loadout to measure tanks , he slipped on ice but caught himself avoiding a fall . ee apparently wrenched his back during this process & missed work on 2/28/03 . ee returned to work on monday 3/3/03 on light duty . note : ee broke his back several years ago while in marine corp .
employee was walking around the longwall drive area slipped and fell on right arm causing fracture .
while preparing to take ag-5 out for a turnaround , ee was reaming out ag-5 suction with a maul & reamer . as he hit the reamer with the maul , a piece of metal chip flew off and struck him in the left thigh , where it lodged . the metal was not visible but he had a 1 '' laceration .
mine foreman was making fireboss run at approximately 4:30 am discovered roof fall in # 3 entry measuring 10 ft wide x 20 ft long x 5 ft thick . 40 ft inby spad 160. this area was bolted with 4 ft resin bolts . fall will be cleaned up and rebolted with 6 ft bolts and any additional support .
employee said he had put ram battery on charge & when he jerked on battery lid his back started hurting , he worked until 11/30/05 , went to dr .
employee was exiting the cab of lhd to unload stopping pans from the bucket when he stepped on a rock and twisted his ankle . 7000-1 is being done due to part 50 audit .
going through stopping located at 306-307 in the 9 south # 2 entry and air pressure closed the door on ee's foot . when ee got foot out , ee fell down and stoved wrist on the floor trying to catch self , resulting in a possible fracture . no problems with mining methods , ppe , training or compliance issues .
ee's cleaning up @ the end of shift , tools were placed in box & lowered to ground floor of mill bldg with overhead hoist . hoist opr . was raising the hook so the hoist could be parked . ee's gathered at the box , hoist did not stop and cable broke , block & hook fell stricking ee on hard hat . possible skull fracture .
ee was walking when he tripped over a cable causing him to fall on his left hand ( thumb ) .
ee slipped on wet board on forms , and fell on his side on a timber lauing on the ground .
hand slipped on painted surface of a metal plateas he was moving it to a cutting stand .
the continuous miner was being used to clean up a rock fall . the injured was beside the machine operator when a piece of rock rolled from the rib and struck him . injuries inclued fractured rib s , a collapsed lung , and 2 fractured vertebrae .
2 ee were conducting normal maintenance , replacing screens , greasing and servicing which includes a lot of manual labor . they did nothing outside of the normal practices . these activities was too strenuous for one and he was advised to take time off in order to rest his back muscles .
ee was sampling sacks of material with a thief sampler . when he turned the thief shut . the skin on his left index finger got caught in the pinch point of one of the openings of the thief which resulted in a hunk of skin being cut off .
employee was pinning in # 1 entry , the canopy of the bolter hit the rib . after placing the first pin ee was drilling ee's second hole and the drill steel stopped up , the ee went to the middle of the bolter to retrieve a new drill steel , when a rock from the rib fell down , an hit the wire mesh that was leaned up next to the rib and hit ee in the back of the right leg .
a rock fall was discovered in the # entry duringthe preshift examination ; fall didn't affect miners , ventilation nor equipment . fall approx.20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7 ' high ; area has been dangered and cribbed off , also timbers have been
restricted duty . strained shoulders lifting injured ee from truck bed to stretcher . he had surgery 10-9-00 at which time he went on restricted duty .
employee was working in the alkali baghouse and the bypass dust mixed with the sweat on his wrists causing skin irritation resulting in chemical burns .
ee reported accident on 10/15/02 & did not complain of pain until 11/5 . he became a lost time as of 11/6 . he was adding additional 100 ' of discharge hose to a 8 '' water pump . as he was pulling out hose it became caught on a rock . he felt pain in his back .
employee suffered a same level fall , he tried to extend arms to brace against fall . his injury was bilateral elbow fractures . employee expected to have surgery monday nov 17 , 2008 .
ee fell thru the floor of an underpass , causing blocks to fall on his head .
ee alleges that while cleaning off a roof bolt trailer in surface yard , he was cleaning bed of trailer using cardboard box , scraping muck , trash etc . the wind belw dust of muck back into face . accident was not reported until 2/26/00 . has been under investigation till now .
ee was pulling screen out of shaker when he felt pain in lower back .
employee was on an 8-foot step ladder replacing v-belts for the vsi , when stepping off ladder onto the ground , employee states he twisted his right knee and ankle stepping on loose 3 '' rock . the employee sought medical attention on 9/4/15 diagnosed with a knee/ankle strain and given restrictions .
while roof bolting in 3rd north development section which has a height of 56 inchs operator strained low back muscle while installing roof bolts .
ee was pulling a roofbolt from the tray when his right little finger became caught between the roofbolt and the drill pot.medical treatment injury .
2 employees were pulling torches along side of continous miner . miner was being moved by another employee . miner knocked injured ee into the rib . broke his left rib .
while repairing a hydraulic cylindar with a spanner wrench , the wrench slipped and he smashed the end of his left middle finger causing a fracture on the tip .
the dawes elevator failed to operate at 2:45 pm on 09/09/2016 due to a buffer switch being grounded . they got the issue fixed at 4:55 pm and it started working again . there were no employees on the elevator when this incident occurred .
this incident did not involve a miner . a private vehicle traveling north on williams street left the roadway striking a section of fence and the main gate at the entrance to thornton quarry . the driver sustained injuries and was transported by ambulance to christ hospital . the thornton il police department is handling the investigation .
a roof fall occurred in the 3rd main north , 68 crosscut , intersection , # 4 entry . the fall measures approximately 18 feet wide , 30 feet long , and 10 ' thick . primary roof suppor t in this area is 4 foot fully grouted resin bolts .
ee was tightening bridge pin bolts with ratchet . while pulling on the ratchet he dislocated his shoulder . this was approx . the 3rd time he has had trouble with his shoulder . nov. 7th was the day he went off work . nov.7th was the 1st day of work he missed .
a roof fall has occurred in l-main @ spad 30+79 ( abandoned l-3 header hole area ) . the fall is approx . 15 ' w x 55 ' l x 6 ' high .
while carrying a box of screws the left foot got through a hole and he suffered a cut . started rest at home by state insurance policy recommendation on 10 nov 2005. worked on until 9 nov 2005 .
while bolting up a steel frame on ground , fork lift operator hit the frame with a outrigger while swinging around to unload trailer . the steel frame moved forward hit worker behind both ankles . he was taken to dr xray : tiny avulsion fracture off the dorsum of left navicular the r ankle showed no evidence of fracture . he was put in a boot and given light duty restriction .
employee was using a hilti caulking gun to dispense epoxy into loose bolts . employee failed to puncture the seal on end of tube and pumped pressure into the tube . when nothing came out , employee turned tube to look inside the end , the seal burst shooting epoxy onto safety glasses and into employees eye .
ee was removing an equipment belly pan from the forks of a forklift . material slipped and pinched hand between floor and belly pan .
a roof fall in the 12 west panel # 7 xcut # 5 entry measuring 50 ' by 2 ' by 6 ' . the area was mined in nov 2003 and supported with 6 ' tension rebar roof bolts .
person was changing seive screen with two other persons . when he lifted the screen over a handrail to get it into the screen deck , he felt a pain in left shoulder .
while cleaning a suction hose on the roof bolter , the employee lacerated his thumb on a piece of metal at the hose connection . the ee received 7 stitches in his thumb .
while dropping rail cars the individual had to dismount the moving cars to get to another car to set the brake . the area was snowy and icy and when he dismounted he slipped and fell on his kne e causing a sprain .
employee was moving a oil barrel by rolling it when ee felt instant pain in ee's right shoulder .
2 employees were performing routine maintenance on the komatsu pc300 rock hammer . they were replacing a section of the hydraulic hose from the boom to the hammer . injured was loosening the nut on the hammer end & co-worker was using his pocket knife to cut tie straps which were holding a smaller hose to the one they were replacing . he cut a strap & knife hit ee in lower right leg .
employee stated that ee was attempting to stand up after placing crib blocks under the section feeder and felt a pain in the left knee .
ee was filling blending hopper & thought the belt that was feeding the hopper was plugging up . he pulled the lid back off of the belt & reached in to grab a chunk of material when bolt caught finger & pulled it into hold down roller .
while working on 5710 loader , the employee stumbled over a timber that was laying on the ground as ee was walking around the loader and twisted right ankle .
ee removing a roller on belt line when left ring finger was caught between the end of the roller and the roller frame causing an avulsion injury to the tip of the finger .
ee was attempting to cross a moving belt using a belt crossover and slipped causing him to fall onto the belt . chief electrician quickly turned the belt off allowing ee to remove himself from the belt . ee suffered three cracked ribs and a fracture to his right shoulder blade . prescribed treatment was rest and immobilization .
ee was driving a bushing pin into place to lock down belt structure . the supervisor was passing by about 45 ' away when he got a piece of dirt inhis eye . he worked the rest of the shift after f lushing eye . he thought he got it out but still hurt . went home & woke at 3:30 a.m. with severe eye pain . after being examined by doctor , went to hospital to have small piece of steel removed
ee was pushing a mantrip that was stuck with his coal hauler , as he was pushing he pulled hismelf up by grabbing his canopy in dams so leg hit his steering lever causing his hauler to pinch into ribling smashing his right hand .
member was making a belt splice on tues nov 28. he was cutting the belt with a standard utility knife . he had his left hand on the belt rail while he was cutting the belt . the knife slipped off the belt cutting the member's left thumb . hewas transported to the hospital by ambulance . he received 5 stitches and was released for work .
ee was hauling to the # 1 entry . ee was adjusting curtain . ee claims back was hurting . this 7000-1 is being reported due to the ten day time frame . this 7000-1 could possibly be amended or rescinded at a later date due to the lack of information at the time the 7000-1 is being reported . investigation is still ongoing and medical documentation is being gathered .
a roof fall was found in a 4way intersection at 8+40 room 3 in 4rms mmu 003. the fall was in examiner travelway in a set of worked out return rooms . the fall was 20'wide x 20'long x 10'high . area was mined june 15 , 2000 & had been bolted with 8'full resin pins . no injury or property loss resulted . there are no plans to clean fall . travelway was rerouted .
ee was working in water that apparently had alkali in it : it burned his hand & arm
ee was holding onto an 80 lb plate and another ee had another 80 lb plate . the other ee's plate slipped so the ee put hand out to prevent the plate from falling on ee's foot . as a result , the ee hurt right elbow up to the shoulder : muscle/tendon .
employee was cutting notches in skirtboard rubber so it could be fastened on the belt . employee had left hand on the skirtboard rubber and cutting towards that hand when the knife slipped out of the rubber cutting glove and thumb .
electrician positioned self in a manner that allowed a 10 lb inspection door to indirectly fall on left hand causing a laceration to index finger and a bruise to thumb . laceration required stitches .
untentional roof fall location : south mains , # 6 entry , spad 7696 height - ? width - 16 ' length - 70 ' support - 5 ' resin & truss bolts area is entries of old intake which is not traveled regularly
ee fell tripped on crack in concrete slab injuring his left ankle . ee has pre-exiting condition toward severe damage to both ankles . still under internal investigation .
ee was walking along road in process area & was struck by a golf cart coming around a corner .
ee injured his right knee while jumping from a concrete block to the ground . he sought medical attention on 4/25/12 and was placed on restricted duty . this incident is being reporting within 10 days of employee seeking medical attention .
employee had been lifting 5 gal containers with antifoam over his head into a sump when he strained left side , neck and shoulder area .
employee was trying to take a belt off motor . he thought the motor was stopping . when the belt popped off , the motor gained momemtum throwing the pry bar into employee's face causing a laceration . he received 20 stitches .
employee was exiting # 3 loadout system , going down stairs , slipped on step and hit left shoulder on railing .
the employee was riding a railcar when the car came to a stop . the employee jumped off and sprained his left ankle . the reason the report was not done at that time was that it was not viewed as receiving medical treatment beyond first aid . after further investigation it was determined that , it was recordable .
a roof fall in cross cut between # 4 and # 5 entry on the 2nd south t way at tag marker 5 + 60. fall length 100 ft by 18 ' wide by 15 ft high area was bolted with 12 ft long bolts . this fall will be cleaned up and rebolted
the employee has been diagnolsed with occupational hearing loss .
on 5-27-16 , ee was ascending the access ladder to a haul truck when ee struck right knee on the ladder rung . reported accident on 5-31-16 , was seen by physician and placed on restricted duty . follow-up appt . 6-3-16 cleared ee for rtw with no restrictions .
individual was participating in a mine rescue team competition/training at hutchinson , ks . due to exteneded exposure to midday sun during the competition/training , the individual sustained a blistering sunburn to the back of his neck . he laid off work to avoid breaking the blisters .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee on 5/21/2018 .
as ee was removing a metal plate from the side opening of an air separator , his hand hold slipped , allowing corner of door to strike his leg .
the ee had a minor accident on 3/18/02 when he slipped and fell on the ice in the parking lot of the mill . he sprained his rt . ankle ; he did not receive any medical attention until december when his condition worsened . on 12/16/02 the ee underwent minor surgery to repair his injuries , therefore making it reportable and a lost time accident .
minor burn to left little finger - issued rx
ee was crossing over belt using belt crossover when his foots slipped and he injured his right leg .
lowering set of steps with crane - load moved quickly , ee grabbed at cable pulling something in his neck .
ee was descending boarding ladder to complete pre-shift walk around of haul truck . he stepped on small rock and rolled his ankle and strained his back .
employee was on a ladder approx 3 ' above ground . maintenance work was being performed on a gravel chute . the employee reached out and the ladder shifted . in the process of stabalizing the ladd er and himself the employee strained his lower back . the employee completed his shift and the back stiffened up overnight !
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the wyoming # 2 mine , 1 break outby spad # 1971 , in the # 4 entry , that measured 7 ' high x 20 ' wide x 25 ' long . no injuries were reported . the area was developed on 12/1/2011 .
had roof fall in intersection 18 ' x 40'at spad # 4460 in intake outby section due to undetected faulty area . didn't block intake . had 2 other intake entries .
did not return for 30 day retest . recvd disc from audiologist with final results on 3/21/2014 . had a 10 db avg shift with threshold above 25 db
employee was bolting and mistakingly allowed the drill pod to come down on his left index and middle fingers , bruising and causing pain . he received first aid and medical treatment .
ee was walking around a coiled water hose and tripped over it . he then fell to the floor landing on his left hip , resulting in a ruptured disc in his lower back . this injury required surgery on 3/9/07 .
solenoid sticking on one of the brakes of main hoist . when the computer senses too little or too much brake pressure , or an abnormality it sets all the brakes , until a system check is complete in the logic . call made to msha 10:19am . hoist returned to service approximately 10:40am . parts odered for repairs .
a fall of the roof occurred on # 2 unit , 1st n.w.sub mains , # 5 entry cross cut 42 inby spad # 40064 10 : the fall was 120'long 19.5 ' wide , and 5.5 ' high . no equipment , person or ventilation were affected .
employee stated that he was coming down the steps at the parts trailer . the boot on his right foot got caught on the second step , causing him to fall forward toward the ground . he landed on hi s left foot causing it to creel under resulting in fracture above the ankle on his left foot . reportable but no lost time incurred .
trespasser was riding a dirt bike on a county road under construction in a reclaimation area . he hit hole and lost control of his bike . he flagged employees driving by who called for an ambula nce who called for lifeflight because of a possible head injury . he had been previously warned not to ride across mine property . he would ride around gates and over berms on closed roads .
ee was checking fluid levels when he slipped on the back of a 235 cat track hoe , bruising right shin and knee .
ee and coworker were in 5 west to 6 hand scaling roof . they were approximately 60 ' in the air near the roof . they had sounded the roof previously and it sounded solid . ee was reaching to scale a rock about 4 ' from basket when the rock above him fell . four rocks fell , some striking him , ranging from 100 to 500 lbs . coworker was not hit by any rock .
the ee was carrying a belt stand with another eein preparation for changing out a bad bottom roller . the ee set his end down and as the other end was being lowered the running belt caught the edge of the stand and knocked him to the ground and struck him in the left arm and leg . injury was diagnosed as a severe contusion to the bicepttendon .
he was installing roof bolt . he put bolt in hole and rotated with up pressure . when he let head down , bolt and plate came back down also . he had not put glue in hole . he removed bolt , put in glue , reinstalled bolt and rotated . as it was going up , unaware that plate had gaulded ( welded ) to nut from previous installation , plate rotated with bolt and cut his arm .
before shift during test run , mancar had come off track . gravel in slope caused this . slope was cleaned , cleared & inspected . bent bolt on bearing cap of mancar was also repaired .
on 6/29/2017 employee was operating a loader and strained back when the machine drove through a rut . injury did not result in reportable restrictions until 7/10/2017 due to employee on vacation for the holiday . spoke to the msha office of injury illness and employment .
when material is damp , chute on screen machine builds up and needs to be cleaned out . shoveling out chute must have slipped off shovel and up into counterwieght of screen on the screen machine .
man trip derailed , injured ee and another ee hurt their backs .
employee was installing roof bolts in the # 5 entry face on mmun9003 section . when the left rib rolled off hitting the ee from behind , the rib injured the lower part of the ee's legs .
driver fell from concentrate truck will tarping load , fell approx . 3-feet and strcuk right shoulder possible dislocation or fracture .
ee trammed the dual head roof bolting machine from no . 6 heading to no . 5 heading . he backed the machine up into no . 5 heading to turn around & take bolter to no . 1 heading . as he was backing up the bolter-cable fell off the back of the bumper . ee attempted to put the cable back on the bumper with the bolter still moving & caught his hand between bolter & coal lying on rib .
ee was going out to start the fresh water pump for the plant . he was walking across walkway going to pump house & had his head down squinting his eyes from sun . he walked into corner of steel frame for a swing out window that had vibrated loose & opened . resulted in cut to right side ofhead requring 6 stitches
during dismount from a dozer , ee lost his balance and fell , landing on the ground flat footed .
ee was in the process of building a permanent ventilation control ( brattice ) when a shuttle car entered the crosscut where she was working and struck her in the left leg causing a stress fract ure to the fibula .
the injured employee was trouble shooting the cb system . he disconnected a stainless steel line to check for flow . as the chemical began to flow , it struck another nearby line and a portion splashed into the employee's left eye . the employee's eye was flushed and then he was transported to urgent care . the employee took one dose of pain medication that night .
emplyee was inside a tank car , cleaning the car . local railroad came on site , accidently releasing rail cars above the car the employee was inside . the released cars struck the car being cleaned , knocking the employee down , bruising his lower back . no medical treatment was deemed necessary by attending physicians .
ee placed equipment guard on table in order to use ballpin hammer to staighten guard . while swinging hammer with both hands , ee missed and struck his right shin with hammer , causing a contusion . ee was prescribed anit-inflamatory with further evaluation . employer was notified on 10/2/07 that physical therapy began on 9/28/07 .
employee was changing wrench on the drill or roof bolter when a piece of rock fell out inby the atrs and rolled back , pinning the employee's left leg against the drillhead .
employee was backing down off of the excavator track to the step with right leg and when ee placed left foot on the ground and removed hand from rail to move right foot from the step ee left knee twisted .
fan belts were installed on the compressor for the on a brookville motor . the fan belt had a twist in it after installation . the victim was not involved in the installation of the belts , but w anted to fix the twist . at this time the motorman set the breaker on the motor . the victim reached for the belt as the breaker was set . compressor started hand was caught between belt & pulle
ee was walking around front of truck to get lunchbox ... foot slipped and ee felt pain in rt knee .
employee stepped off screen - higher elevation to lower - and sprained his rt . knee .
while walking , the injured ee tripped on a small pile of sand , lost his balance and fell to his hands and knees . the injured ee sustained a strained right shoulder and returned to work with restrictions and prescription medication .
ee was removing pipe when a valve came apart causing approx . 120 psi of water to hit him .
the # 2 hoist showed a computer fault code of `` drive stall '' . the mine was evacuated & an electrican was notified . the hoist computer system was reset & the code cleared . the hoist was tested at 10:50 pm . miners returned underground at 10:50 pm .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st west submain offof 3rd north submain . x cut 26 # 6 entry . l 29 ' w 18 ' by h 10. the roof was bolted with 6 ' point anchor bolts .
employee was shoveling around the kiln hood when he felt pain/cramping in his lower back and legs . employee stopped shoveling and went to er where he was given rx drugs and was not allowed to come back to work for 2 days .
ee was standing behind manbus when the operator began to back up , hitting the ee left foot .
a cave was found in our common entries , 1 xcut outby spad # 195 area is inby where an other cave had falled on 7/20/01 . the area that had falled was bolted with 6'point anchor bolts .
ee was helping to remove a piece of plywood from the bed of the pup trailer . it cames loose and landed on top of his left foot . possible broken bone in top of foot ( swelling ) .
during normal operation the main hoist shutdown and would not run from the control switches in the hoist house . a relay in the wonder ware was receiving a fault alarm in the slack rope circuit . electricians found the tripped relay and the hoist was back in service in approximately 28 minutes , however the call to msha was made as a precaution .
ee was lifting the end of a piece of sheet metal to slide it out of the way . when he picked up on the metal he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
the ee was making a bin change . whent he ee loosened a gate , the gate spun around and hit his right knee .
employee was under a d-10 dozer doing maint . when employee crawled out they felt a pain in right knee ( employee has had prior issues with same knee ) . surgery was done on 2/6/2012 and it has not been determined whether this is preexisting or a new injury .
ee was walking and along the portable crusher when ee stepped on a loose rock and lost footing and caught self . resulted in jarring back .
a faulty ammonia sensor alarmed causing an evacuation of our underground operation and msha was notified as a courtesy . msha cited the meikle mine for not notifying them about a possibility of an unplanned gas inundation near the betze portal within 15 minutes .
while employee was descending , he stepped on a pipe his foot slipped and his rt knee hit the concrete surface .
employee shut down megatex then using a pry bar , pushed megatex over and reached into pipe with right hand to remove obstruction . pry bar slipped causing megatex to slide back over employee's right hand . right wrist and hand were lacerated and smashed .
employee reported : he and a co-worker were attempting to couple diesel rock car to the diesel getman , when lifting the getman coupling , experienced pain to his low back . for a prolonged time period , he has suffered from degenerative disc disease which has worsened over the years .
ee alledgedly slipped on grease in front of the time clock and fell hurting his back . was taken by he save to hospital . was checked over and told to go back to work after 48 hrs . ee was under reasonable suspendion for alchol and knew he was going to be tested .
ee attempted to take a step to begin walking and stepped on a rock forcing her knee backwards .
the ee was struck on the left shoulder by a rock from the rib as he was operating an underground mucker . he did not return to his next shift .
ee observed an electrical tracking on the line side of the disconnect , tried to clear by tapping on it with a screwdriver handle & it exploded .
did not start losing time until 2/12/09 . while unloading supplies with lo-trac , drove into hole and jarred his neck . requiring surgery on neck .
employee had barred one end of a stick of supply rail off a railcar . when the other end of the rail was barred off the opposite end of the railcar , the end already on the ground bounced up into the air and landed on top of ee's right foot .
ee reported he was pulling on a 6 '' vacuum hose when he slipped on snow covered ice and fell resulting in a fracture of his left arm just about the wrist .
ee was cleaning rocks off of the miner when his finger was struck by a rock resulting in a laceration that required sutures . he also twisted hisknee when moving away from the miner .
ee was lowering a plate that bags slide over in packing opeartion . edge was sharp and he cut his finger .
ee was mixing concrete sluray when mix got into his eyes causing burning sensation .
while ee was emptying the 2 yard tire overflow bin , the ee reached horizontally into the bin to pull a car tire ( less than 25 lbs ) out and felt a sharp pain between shoulder blades .
ee was going down stairs to collect sample from floc and leach . she was over taken by fumes as she entered into the building causing her to get sick and lose her voice . as a result of this she was diagnosed primarily with chemical trachetitis and chemical caused bronchitis . she is to take further tests .
ee was trying to manually pull a 4 ' piece of drill steel that was stuck down out of hole . his hand slipped and drill steel came out of hole and struck his left little finger .
employee was exiting the binder pump containmentarea when he slipped & fell on a patch of ice . accident not reported by employee until 1/8/01 .
a rash developed on the neck and lower neck area of the individual . it is alledged that this is work related .
injured ee & another ee were replacing the guard on # 19 conveyor . injured ee was using a crescent wrench to tighten the nut that held the guard in place . the wrench slipped & struck his hand a gainst the edge of the guard resulting in laceration to top of 2 fingers right hand .
audimetric records indicate an industrial hearing loss .
ee was walking around the side of a roof bolter to get a half header . as he was walking he slipped on the coal bottom and twisted his left knee and hip . on 11/7/02 he began missing time .
ee was climbing ladder when his muddy safety boots slipped on ladder . left side contusion and cracked lower vertebrae - mri only no meds . no treatment by doctor at e.r .
employee was filling water tank with water out of a pump hose and tripped over the hose and fell about 4 ft from back of pickup truck to ground hitting shoulder area .
the ee was handling crib to jack up the pan on the miner when he mashed his left finger . ee got stitches in his left finger .
had just finished cutting and was waiting for bolters to complete bolting when a piece of coal/rock 32 '' l x 23 '' w x 1 3/4 '' thick fell and hit him on the head .
injured was in the process of changing batteries in scoop , when he ran over crib block . this caused him to be jarred inside caopy and he struck his head when hat fell off . taken to boone memor ial and received two stitches .
the # 6 elevator was inoperable from 11:50 am until 1:45 pm due to a short in an electrical control relay . this conveyance is part of the mine emergency escape route . affected miners were instr ucted to use an alternate escape route until the elevator was repaired .
ee got foreign material in right eye while picking up safety glasses . ee received an abrasion on eye and given a prescription eye medication for treatment . ee released back to work on full duty following medical treatment .
ee was operating 988 feed loader @ crushing plant ( wed-fri ) . when he woke up os saturday morning , he felt pain inhis lower back . began treatment on sunday .
moving a manbasket , unit hit a bump , resulting in loss of balance and causing him to fall in basket . he was using a safety belt at the time .
supervisor was holding a box wrench on the bolt heads of the tube assembly of a telsmith screen while another employee was tightening the nuts on the opposite side with a ratchet when the supervisor's right little finger got pinched causing a laceration that required five stitches .
employee was operating a chain hoist at palletizer . a co-worker was driving wheels in place on shaft with a hammer when a chip of metal flew off rollers and struck employee in chin . metal lodg ed in employee's chin .
employee was at the primary crusher hopper using a porta power hydraulic jack and shaft to push metal skirting together at grizzly feeder in order to repair a crack in the metal . the jack and shaft buckled and the shaft struck ee , cutting his right middle finger and striking his right foot . cut required sutures . ee was unable to work from 9/4/02 until released 9/11/02 .
while the iw was inspecting a siphon line on a water pump an insect crawled up his shirt sleeve . the insect bit the iw on the shoulder . this incident was reported by the iw 3 days after it occurred . when the injury was reported it was still swollen and required medical attention due to an infection .
the operator was notified by msha that the ee exercised his rights under 30 cfr part 90 .
employee was walking fron one area to another in the plant and stepped into a frozen rut , twisting his right knee . he did not seek medical attention until sept. 29 , 2008 , resulting in surgery scheduled on 10/22/08 .
the employee was struck on the right wrist by a rock . he returned to work on his subsequent shifts . on july 7 , he requested medical follow up and the treating physician restricted his work act ivity .
employee was moving bike racks from under railroad belts . when ee got back into sweeper to sweep under belts ee noticed a sharp pain in lower back .
the employee was using a rivot buster to clean up around a tail pulley when the employees left finger came into contact with the shaft as it was recoiling causing it to get pinched between the shaft and the collar .
the intersection of no . 1 entry , at xc-11 in lw-304 had been dangered off due to poor roof conditions . crews were progressively installing roof to floor supports toward the intersection . as pumpable cribs were pumped , they observed the roof sag . the roof eventually fell , 18ft w by 60 ft l by approx 15 ft high .
ee was lifting a used belt scraper off of the mine floor and felt pain in his back . ee states that he has had numerous back pain occurances .
an unintentional fall of roof occured in # 5 entry , cross cut # 33 , on the 4th south sub main . the fall measured 20 ' long x 18 ' wide x 15 ' thick . the fall consisted of fractured lamanated stack rock . the area was bolted with 10 ' point anchor bolts . the fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
operator was removing a johnson bar he had used at the conveyor flop-gate platform inside of 19/39 transfer station when it slipped from his hand and fell on his right fot and struck him behind the end of his steel toe .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by the miner examiner . fall measured 19 ' wide by 5 ' high by 40 ' long . fall is located in the # 8 return approx . 2000 feet from the working section between survey spad #'s 355 & 356. this area will not be rehabilitated .
employee removed plastic trim to try and fix an intermittently working windshield wiper on a dozer . in removing the plastic , a section broke off . employee was going to set the piece outside of the dozer , and while exiting the machinery ee hit the dashboard with the trim and the sharp edge penetrated through ee's shirt and stuck ee in ee's right arm just below ee's bicep .
employee was carrying 3 '' lay-flat waterline to a pump in # 4 entry near the shaft bottom when he felt pain in his lower back .
preshift examiner discovered a roof fall in 2nd sw butt # 1 entry ( room neck ) inby spad # 547. the fall was in the intersection extending into # 1 entry and x-cut 2-1 in both directions . fall was approx . 60 ' long by 18 ' wide & 6'-8 ' high . area was bolted with 6 ' super twist bolts . the area was dangered off with cribs and danger signs on all sides .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at 5:30 am on monday , september 17 , 2007. the fall occurred at spad # 2865 , 2500 feet outby the working section . the fall measured approximately 20 feet wide x 70 feet long x 5 feet high . additional support has been added to this area to prevent future roof falls .
employee was tramming a continous miner when miner boom pinned him against the coal rib .
a roof fall was found at 2:20 pm on 02-08-2000 in # 4 entry 60 ft. inby spad no . 20 a 3-way intersection . this area was mined jan 1 , 1999. the roof support was 6 ' and 7 ' torque tension roof bol ts with 5 '' x 11 ' straps . the fall was 16 ' wide , 16 ' long , 12 ' high .
while drilling a hole for a roof bolt , a bolt holding the operator's canopy broke allowing the canopy to drop , striking the ee on the right shoulder . ee first sought medical attention on 7-18- 01 first day off work was 723-01 .
unintentional roof fall occurred in # 3 entry at spad # 1183 . 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' height . type of bolt used 6 ' torque tension and 8 ' point anchor .
ee was operating the miner when a rock fell out from between the bolts & struck ee on the hand .
ee stepped unevenly while getting down from truck and felt something pull in his knee .
elbow pain due to repetive motion from water lancing . restricted work while going through physical therapy and further evaluation .
ee was carrying aluminum monorail along the side of the tailpiece and slipped . the monorail slipped from his hands , fell and hit his right knee cap . the ee finished his shift , but decided to see a dr. at a later date . the 2 mri images of the right knee showed degenerative joint disease with no tear or internal derangement . please consider this oi . mri information attached .
off-hwy end-dump truck veered off roadway onto the 8'+ shoulder , struck a buried drainage pipe , traveled up the steep slope adjacent to the shoulder , struck a boulder ( approx 5 ' in dia . ) & power pole , turned over onto its driver's side & came to rest on the side of the vehicle with the driver's side of the bed of the truck resting on the boulder .
roof fall on 005-0 section last open x cut no . 26 fall from # 4 right thru # 5 right 100 ' long 25 ' wide and 8 ' to 12 ' thick . the area has been stopped and pulled back cribs have been built and d angered off .
while getting off manbus to throw switch , ee twisted left knee .
ee was installing permanet roof supports in number 3 left break . he had swung the drill boom out , and was in process of placing starter drill steel into drill pot , when he was struck by piece of draw rock on his left elbow . resulting in small fracture .
employee stated while turning a left hand break in the # 4 entry on the 1 west section a rib rolled out striking him on the legs knocking him down . another employee had to help him get the rock off of his leg . when the rib hit him it caused him to twist his rt knee which caused pain between his rt knee and ankle .
the employee was tightening bolts with a rachet and socket on the 34dl04 drill leveling jack pad . the socket slipped and the employee fell backwards catching himself with his left hand on a sharp edged rock . employee received two stitches .
ee was removing roller which stated to fall . he overextended wrist while holding onto part the next day he noted a knot on wrist which kept increasing in size & discomfort dr has splinted & xrayed seeing specialist to determine exact nature of injury
ee has been working for this comnpany in various positions since he was hired 10/01/80 . approx . 5 yers laborer intermittent with 1 yr. as plant operator , 3 hrs packer . 1.5 yr as mech welder , a nd has worked int he lab as wet analyst/lab analyster off and on approx . 11 years .
ee experienced pain in his lower right abdomen on 12-28-2011. initial dr visit on 12/29/11 revealed hernia . ee sought 2nd opinion . that dr diagnosed only a muscle pull/strain and gave ee a no restriction dr note . ee believes the cause was heavy lifting and shoveling of salt over extending period of time . related to accident reported june 2011. ee quit 1/13/12 .
ee was brushing/clearing with excavator when tree fell through the machine door and landed on his right foot , pinning foot . right foot was cut on bottom and possible fractured bones in the foo t .
the victim was walking in front of the # 11 scoop that was traveling in # 1 ( intake ) entry of the 14a longwall to deliver posting material to the worksite . the operator of the scoop stated that he saw the victim walking on the side opposite of the operator . he then looked back & did not see him . he exited the cab & walked to the front of scoop & found the vicim injured on the ground .
ee stated they slipped getting off d8 cat dozer at the gravel pit and twisted a knee . no witnesses to this accident , and ee didn't report this to a supervisor at any time . i was notified of the incident when ee filed first report for workman's comp on 5/12/17 with hr . people did see ee limping and asked about it , but ee didn't report this to anyone . date & time are in question .
ee was removing insulation from the end of the hi-line to install in the power box . the knife slipped and cut the top of his left thumb .
ee dropped drill steel & it fell between leveling arms . ee grabbed the steel with left hand & bumped the thrust lever . the head went up , pinching left index finger between drill steel and spare steels sticking out of holder . ee was placed on restrictive duty .
ee was shoveling sand .
an unplaned , non injury roof fall was discovered on 12-20-06 at approx 2pm while the mine examiner was conducting his weekly examination . the fall was in the intake air course at the 57th cross cut in the # 6 entry . the fall measured approx . 0-8 inches thick , 19 feet wide and 30 feet long .
the ee was working from an elevated platform thawing acoal chute , when the platform to pile fell ( approx . 5 ' ) twisting left knee .
block slid off pallet due to ice on block which hit ee in the left shin . he was manually handling blocks on pallet on forklift .
reported claim on occupational pneumoconiosis by wv worker's comp . due to exposure to dust .
ee tripped on rock and tore ligament .
the # 1 portable elevator malfuction at approx 1 '' 45 pm it was found that the changer had trip and the batteries were dead . ee were notified and the escapeways was re-routed to slope host . at 4 ; 20 pm the batteries were changed and elevator put back in service .
ee was cutting a piece of rubber hose with his rpocket knife . he was cutting toward his left hand when he stabbled his left hand .
a kink was found on the crabapple hoist rope during a regular inspection . the hoist was taken out of service for retermination
the employee was attempting to remove the bolter cable down from the `` j '' hooks which were suspended from the roof by a roof bolt plate . as the employee lifted up on the roof bolter cable , the `` s '' hook which is attached to the `` j '' hook came free from the plate eye . this resulted in the `` j '' hook falling and striking the employee on the bridge of the nose resulting in a fracture .
the employee pinched the fifth finger of his left hand when a tool box lid closed . this was a first aid injury . on 7-24 the employee was experiencing discomfort and had an x-ray which identifi ed a fracture .
a roof fall occurred in the 1 main east in # 5 entry in the intersection of cross-cut # 23 and extending through the pillarline for 20ft . toward # 6 entry measuring 18ft . wide x 40ft long . x 8ft . high . the area was supported with 6ft . tension rebar bolts and 9ft . mega bolts . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall . this area was mined in april 2004 .
the hydraulic jacks were used to raise the primary jaw to unpin the stationary legs up front . when the ee's up front attempted to raise the stationary leg manually to pull the pin , the ee in back raised the unit in the back unaware of the teetering effect it had on the unit up front . resulted in the ee up front getting his fingers pinched .
good weather muddy road conditions , lighting was fair equip condition good . ee was pushing into the feeder and the control tower operator moved the tripper causing rocks to fall on top of the dozer and while operator escaped he hurt his right knee .
ee was cutting belt skirt rubber , came off edge of rubber and made /2 '' puncture to his right thigh .
solvay minerals workers were shoveling rocks on floor creating a slippery work area . ee was moving a bottle cart . his feet slipped he fell catching himself with left arm and shoulder , hurting his shoulder .
ee was holding bolt blocks while a coworker welded them onto the miner . during the process , ee's eyes were burned . he went to see his doctor for treatment .
ee was bolting when a draw rock fell from top and smashed his left hand against drill pot .
a roof fall measuring 30'l , 20'w , 6 1/2 , had occurred in the 1st nw submain # 2 entry , 23+85 . the fall was timbered around .
while hoisting material up the preheater , ee stepped back and caught heel of foot on concrete pad and fell back . turned while falling and landed on concrete pad bolts . called ambulance and was checked out and released . pain in left thigh and pain in left shoulder was intense .
ee stablizing soil sample trailer to fix flat tire . jack broke on tongue of trailer grabbing hisglove and pinching finger underneath hitch plateof trailer . he jerked hand out from under plate causing a portion of right middle finger tip to be severed . no bone damage or loss of dexterity .
employee trying to pull slack on cb radio coaxial cable & cut a zip tie with pocket knife when knife slipped off and cut his left index finger . had 7 stitches in wound at e.r . and returned to work at 11 pm .
while shoveling ee struck his finger against a piece of metal at the roll plant .
traveling to fast for conditions resulted in vehicle roll over . passenger christi taylor , sustained fractured left femur and right ankle .
after taking a ball mill density sample , ee stepped backwards , lost his balance and fell against a hand railing causing a fracture to his rib . ee went to the clinic and was given a lifting res triction while rib was too sore . ee had vacation from 5/18/00-5/27/00 and returend w/no complications .
the drill helper was stacking drill rods againstthe rib . the rods started to fall striking his foot .
ee pouring concrete had build up in line , when line cleared ee received concrete to the face/eyes resulting in concrete burns to the eyes .
employee was positioned on top of the transmisson of a loader to remove hydraulic filters . he had loosened a filter and was turning it the rest of the way off and suddenly had a sharp pain in his back .
employee was performing maintenance on the a side briquetter unit and while performing this task tripped over a crib block . as a result , the employee fell into the belt structure and fractured his right arm ( humerus ) .
rock fell from between bolts , striking ee on the back . rock striking the ee was approx . 3 ' long by 1 ' wide by 6 '' thick .
the drill helper grabbed a rotating drill steel with ee's left hand and became entangled in the drill steel . the employee was unsure why ee grabbed the steel . all work was stopped and emergency care was provided to the employee .
ee reports that he was closing a hatch door to # 4 cyclone and lost control of the door . it struck his left hand , fracturing l # 4 finger .
a roof fall occurred at the above mentioned mine . the size of this fall was 30 ' x 20 ' x 4 ' . the location was in the neutral area , spad 5878 , 900 ' from the producing section . roof support was 42 '' resin bolts . area will not see rehab .
ee was unloading supply car when a rock fell from the top striking ee on r shoulder and pushing ee into supply car .
shovel opertor was walking out of the control room in the house when he stepped off the last step in oil and fell on his back . he was holding the handrail with his right hand and his left arm hit the hoist brake in an attempt to catch himself . he was treated by a physician and taken off work .
ee preparing to fill in washed out area using a bulldozer . ee was walking through the rough terrain of the washed out area when his foot slipped into a washout injuring his ankle .
cut left index finger . whild holding a liner bolt head with left hand and using an air gun with my right , the bold head spun cutting my finger .
ee stated that he was bolting roof top in # 2 heading when his legs slipped out from under him causing him to stretch groin muscle .
ee was working putting a wiper on feed belt when a rock weighing approx . 50 lbs fell off above him landing on his foot fracturing his ankle . the rock fell approx . 4 ' .
while pushing over 36 '' bag line vent tube , the air pressure in the bag line forced ee backwards causing him to strain his lower back .
employee was in the process of setting rock props and as he was handed the setting hammer for setting the props he felt something pop in his shoulder . the time differaece between the accident date and the date submitted is because the employee did not loose any time until may 12 2006 from this incident
while riding on a demascus 3 wheel mantrip , operator lost control when he tried to back into a xcut on a steep grad , upsetting the mantrip .
high coal mill inlet temperatures caused and explosion and fire in the coal mill cyclone and dust collector compartments . no personnel were injured and the coal mill ' s fire suppression and explosion containment systems functioned properly minimizing property damage .
ees were raking ash from kiln # 2 grates ; ash dust went into ee's eyes .
while working on fly ash bin , hose was pressurrized and fly ash material got into eyes .
ee was helping change lift cyclinder when the cylinder fell on his finger .
ee was re-adjusting the water stand sock in order to load the water truck . as he was climbing up the ladder to position the sock his foot slipped and his right shin contacted the ladder rung resulting in a deep cut that required stitches .
ee was assisting another person carry a steel roller for a belt conveyor , foot became entangled in mud , felt pain in lower back .
he was reclaiming on 2nd east beltline when the scoop accidently ran over side of 6 '' waterline causing the water line to come up and hit him in the chest .
person was walking across longwall face towards the headgate . he walked past the shear which was loading coal at # 136 support . shear operator stated a rock came off shear drum and was thrown towards injured person . the rock hit him in the right hand causing laceration .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the old # 3 panel ( recovery area ) at the 67+20 station in the # 6 entry . the fall did not affect ventilation , passege of men or cause personal injury . the fall will not be cleaned up . the fall measured 20 feet x 30 feet x 7 feet high . the area had been bolted with 6 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
employee alledges to experiencing noise induced hearing loss as a result of his employment with apogee coal and was granted a 11 % permanent disability award by brick street mutual .
the truck operator was traveling from the 870 level of the quarry to the waste dump with a load of waste material . the truck left the road , overtraveled a berm and continued down the highwall , rolling over before coming to rest int he quarry . it is believed that the truck operator suffered a medical event and as a result was unable to control the truck as it left the road .
ee was adjusting the height of the personal fan that blows on the employee as they work sacking the clay . the fan fell on his left hand , cutting the thumb .
employee was dismantling guard when it fell onto hand lacerating rt . big finger . he was going to replace the bolts on the centrifuge pump .
ee was driving a haul truck when he hit a bump in roadway causing him to hit head on window . he neglected to wear seatbelt .
employee was unloading ventilation tubing from shuttle car and felt pain in right shoulder . employee was examiner at er and was released to return to work . employee worked his next scheduled shift and then followed up with his family physician and taken off work pending mri diagnosis . first day missed for this injury is 10/29/2015
ee was inside of the dust collector changing bags and removing them from the compartment when dust got into his eyes .
electrical problem , msha was notified at 5:13 p.m. , evacuation started at 5:00 p.m. , completed at 5:13 p.m. wire was repaired at 8:15 p.m. , miners returned underground at 8:35 p.m. the hoist was tested before put back in service .
wrench mashed small finger , cut botom of first knuckle on right hand .
maintenance department was conducting the service cage emergency generator test . the service hoist would not reset upon completion . the mine was evacuated and it was discovered that a bad ethernet card was at fault .
ee was loading a metal toolbox into a rail runner and when he lifted on the toolbox , he felt a sharp pain in his low back .
ee was drilling thru starter bucket drill came in contact with buss bar , causing a flash burn to ee's hand
on july 2nd , 2003 , employee was struck in the neck by a projectile while cutting coal with a continuous mining machine . preliminary findings suggest the vicim was struck by a small piece of metal from the tip of a cutting bit .
a roof fall was discovered in the # 8 entry 1 break inby spad # 315. the fall measured about 20 long , 20 ft wide and 6 ft high .
ee filed an alleged claim for occ . pneumoconiosis on 11/1/04 after working 1yr 8mo . for long branch energy . received notice on 11/22/04 . claim no . 2005018128 . 1/11/05 : reported by remington coal , llc ( stockburg # 1 mine , 4608634 ) : this ee received a 5 % occupational pnuemoconiosis award . ( ee was employed at 4608634 for 5 yrs prior to working for long branch energy . )
miner was operating a cat 992c loader and felt a burning sensation in right forearm . visit to med . provider on 09-12-2011 diagnosed infected insect bite . followed up on 09-14-2011 and admitted to hospital to begin treatment of staph infected insect bite .
while moving the longwall monorail with a winch , the chain securing the winch broke . the winch swung and hit the employee in the face above the right eye , requiring sutures . the report is being filed at this date because we have been waiting for additional medical information . we have not received the information , however they may be a possible skull facture .
crawling out of car body and strained muscel in thorasic region of the back
employee was walking off of the longwall face and stepped in a hole injuring lower back . lost time as of 1/28/2015 .
the employee stated that ee had taken a load of gravel towards the # 1 section to work on the roadway and was on the way back when ee hit a hole and jarred back . the incident became a restricted duty injury on 7/11/16 due to the employee being placed on modified duty restrictions for a strain .
injured was inspecting the intallation of a grizzly unit 141. he was standing on unit 150 , 34 inches above the floor . he reached in unit 141 to get a paper tag . as he removed the tag his arm f rom the chute he fell off the eastside of unit 150. investigation shows he may have had his face in the atmosphere which caused him to fall .
during the preshift of the 001-0 mmu , t-section , at approximately 5:50 a.m. , the preshift examiner encountered an explosive mixture of methane in the range of 5 % in the # 1 entry and 3.8 % in the # 2 entry of the pillar line .
employee was operating an 988 cat loader when he backed into a 16g cat grader that had entered the pit area . ee continued to work and went to the dr. on 06/18/2012 after receiving a jar which resulted in reoccurring back pain and was placed off work pending an evaluation by a specialist . first day off work was 06/19/2012 .
employee stated ee was operating the diesel scoop when the machine overheated . ee heard a leaking noise from the rear of the scoop , and as ee walked toward the rear of the scoop to see where the noise was coming from , the cap covering a reservoir blew off . this caused hot fluid to contact the side of face , resulting in burns and restricted work days .
while shoveling ee turned and felt a pain in his knee . a physician advised him to stay off work .
employee claims that while he was trying to start a screw conveyer motor , the mounting bolts for the motor which was located at the end of the screw conveyer and next to the start up switch , t he mounting nolts broke causing the motor to rotate to the left . when motor rotated to the left , it struck him in the chest . he suffered a contusion to the chest .
alkali dust flew up into employee's eyes when he and his co-workers were attempting to remove screw fromt he inside of bypass dust collector hopper .
was lifting up mantrip to change tire when it fell on his hand .
labor employee was doing normal work duties and felt tightness in his chest area , begin sweating , and legs went numb . employee called supv for assistance and ambulance was called . factors in incident : extreme heat 98f , very little water intake ( dehydrated ) , had not eaten breakfast that morning .
the injured was pushing a piece of metal back into the gob and he ran his hand across a sharp piece of metal . the sharp piece of metal cut thru his glove and lacerated his rt . hand . it took 7 sutures to close the wound .
ee pinched finger with jawplate
ee climbed down from front end loader and stepped on some algea , causing him to slip and fall . his dr scheduled him to have surgery on his right knee on 12-15-00 without the plant's knowledge . ee notified the plant on 12-22-00. last day worked was 12-14-00 .
ee was stepping from shield 86 to 85 and hit his head on the side shield and jammed his neck .
employee was assisting with setup of a work platform . when climbing down , he missed the step or slipped backwards approximately 3 feet contacting a retangular guard on an 8750 dragline . this contact resulted in a multiple rib fracture to the employee .
other was attempting to remove the hoist cable from the dragline . the cable got stuck so . another was on the cab of dragline trying to release the cable . ee jumped up on the tracks of the drag line to assist other however other was unaware tthat he jumped up on the tracks and at the same time the cable was released . the cable swung over and caught ee across the face and throw ee ap
employee was pushing a portable cart when it hit a small crack in the floor . this caused the cart to move suddenly and caught her finger between the cart and a sample bin . the cut she recieved resulted in 4 sutures .
the employee was riding in a mantrip traveling into the mine . the mantrip hit a pothole in the road . the employee bumped his head on the roof of the trip . upon investigation the incident appears to have avergatted an existing condition .
ee was climbing the ladder to the haul pak truck when he slipped and fell to the ground , bumping his knee on the ladder .
miner was lifting a metal lid on a dynominer machine when he lost control of the lid and it dropped on his finger smashing it between the lid and the machine frame . the injury was diag . and treated with notification on 11/16/10 at which time it became a medical reportable injury .
drilling hole near bent bolt to replace it . drill bit had broken tip out on last hole . before he could install new bit , a piece of 2 ' wide , 6 '' -8 '' thick , 6'-7 ' long shale fell in pieces hitting employee . bending of previous bolt pryed shale loose creating potential to fall which was unrecognizable . 18 stitches in r hand , & upper minimally displaced fracture upper anterior maxilla .
ee was attempting to reset breaker on ramcar when she slipped & hyperextended fingers on right hand no accident report was made on this date pain & some swelling persisted and on 1/23/01 sh e sought medical attention . dr diagnosed slight fracture to metacarpal bone . she has been able to work at normal duties
ee was struck by a triangular piece of coal that fell from the corner of the roof while he was hanging brattice . the coal measured 2 ' long by 12 '' by 3 '' , resulting in a concussion , neck strain and contusion behind his right ear .
as an employee was adjusting pipe in the fusing machine , the loader operator pushed the pipe further into the machine and pinched the employee's left hand middle finger . the ee was wearing gloves at the time of the incident . the ee received 6 stitches and their finger was fractured .
a fully trained miner was taking ropes off of a supply car when ee sprained lower back . the accident was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
while picking up stone to be loaded on a pallet ee grabbed a large piece which was covered by smaller pieces of stone and turned to one side to dislodge the stone from the bottom of a pile . th e stone did not dislodge but his lower back did causing lower back pain .
ee states that after placing plastic on a window he stepped down from the ledge in doing this his right knee buckled gave way and he put all weight on left foot causing it to twist .
painting was being done on highwall miner between the date of 4/16- 4/20 2001. employee reported problems with his breathing .
ee was unloading parts from truck , a trunion and shaft , when the shaft slipped . he reached out to hold it and pulled a muscle in his upper back .
ee was opening hood to turn heater valves when he experienced pain in his back & left leg . ee has a history of back problems . ee said he got hurt in previous job .
employee , along with 3 others were repairing splice on thayer belt feeder . while removing tail pulley shaft , tail pulley shifted trapping left ring finger between tail pulley drum and bearing assembly . employee's left ring finger fractured . restricted duty - no lost time .
changing tire on cat rock truck and took the wheel apart and was rolling the ( side ring ) wheel part and it had a burr sticking out and cut the rt . hand palm area .
ee was loading a shuttle car in the five right xcut when a piece of rock measuring ( 9 ' long x 47 '' wide x1-3.5 ' thick ) fell from the mine roof from between the first and second bolt out from th e rib striking him on the left leg and ankle . a fracture was sustained from this injury .
ee was walking , carrying a jackhammer , tripped on the baggy jeans he was wearing and fell striking his head on the ground . ee went to the e.r . late in the evening with a severe headache . diagn osis : minor concussion .
injured employee was standing next to a shield adjustment hose on the longwall recovery face . while the shield was in the process of lowering to pull , a return hose ruptured and sprayed the employee on the right side of his head and face resulting in a corneal abrasion . safety glasses were being worn at the time of the incident .
cab door latch released unexpectedly causing thedoor to swing closed catching injured's left hand causing bruise to palm & back of hand .
ee was taking a short cut back to her work area.she started down a hill that had loose gravel & rocks in the path . half way down she stepped on a rock which caused her to twist her left ankle , which also caused it to fracture .
working with two other employees to remove airslide covers on # 2 mill outside airslide . as they were removing the last section , ee felt something give in his back .
ee getting out of drill . he hit his arm on windshield wiper and cut his arm .
area he was in was full of vapor from the start up of bank 2 dissolvers ; stepped into the pump area of building & stepped into a ditch full of hot water .
employee of the 600 excavator was referred `` fondo del seguro de estado '' for back pain .
while surveying seting over pipe leaned on a culvert pipe felt a pain in the knee thought nothing of it continued with day , 5/19/08 looked at knee brusing from left knee to ankle took hiself to er . dr stated this had to have happened the previous day just a broken blood vessel . release to work on the following monday 7/21/08 . nothing reported to main office till 7/24/08
employee states while digging a hole in the rib and floor with a dutchhead hammer he swung the hammer and inadvertently caught his finger between the mine floor and hammer handle causing a laceration to one finger on the right hand . medical treatment only
ee was walking in the # 5 entry when a piece of draw rock ( laminated sandstone ) measuring 23 '' x 14 '' x 4 '' thick fell & struck him on the hard hat & right shoulder . the height was 99 '' . he suffere d a slight concussion & muscle strain to the lower back . he was unable to work on his next regularly scheduled shift .
a hose broke on the loader causing a full bucketof sand to crash to the ground
employee reported soreness in his upper back area between his shoulder blade . he could not recall any specific event that may have cause it . he is a production truck driver and mentioned the conditon of the roads may have caused it . the reason for not reporting until now was we have done a futher investigaton .
ee was repairing machine , re-installing chain . finger got caught between the chain and the sprocket . ee lacerated his finger requiring sutures .
employee stepped out of truck and when ee put right leg down , knee buckled and ee went down to the ground . ee states that ee can not move right leg below the knee .
ee was cleaning out a small bin under a dust collector where mica material had packed off above the rotary valve . he placed his arm and hand through a small opening in the bin to stir and disl odge the material and his right hand finger contacted rotary valve causing a partial amputation above 1st knuckle to index & middle fingers . ee failed to shut off and lockout the rotary valve
roof bolter operators were positioning a 4 1/2 ' roll of welded wire mesh screen in preparation for the bolting cycle . the mesh was positioned parallel to and under the last row of permanent roof support , when a roof fall occurred . the roof rock sheared off at the last row of permanent roof support striking injured ee .
a roof fall occurred in the # 1 entry of 21 butt longwall panel between # 30 and # 31 crosscuts ( 16+00 ) . the fall was 12ft.long x 15ft . high x 16ft . wide . no injuries and no property damage . area supported with 6ft . hitech bolts , additional 12ft . bolts , dywi dag sling , root screen .
injured employee tossed an empty gatorade bottle at general mine foreman to get his attention . bottle struck and bounced off of foreman's leg and landed at the feet of another employee . the employee picked up the bottle and tossed it back at first employee , striking him in the mouth . broke off front eye tooth at gumline . employee will need dental attention .
ee dismounted equipment and stepped on a rock . injury was to l foot , arch area . minor contusion/bruise . ee was asked if he wanted to go to urgent care , he declined . 6/29/15 ee called me at approx 8:35 pm . i informed him to go to the hospital if he was in `` that much pain '' . ee was sent to podiatrist on 6/30/15 to follow up . mri and blood work 7/1 . ee admitted 7/4 w/infection l foot .
while cutting foam product employee states the box cutter he was using `` slipped '' causing a laceration to rt . palm .
ee was using a sledge hammer to break up rocks int he longwall face conveyor . as he was using the hammer he felt pain in his lower back . finished the shift but pain became worse . there was no damage or impairment to the operation or to any mining equipment . improper use of hand tool caused he injury concrection no ofther alarm were involved .
occ . illness : employee reported on 1/14/2010 that he has had chronic pain in his right shoulder due to years of mining . no specific incident . over 1 year later , on feb. 14 , 2011 , he finally had surgery on his right shoulder . feb 10 , 2011 was first shift missed , as he had his pre-op appt . on that day . this is an occ . illness .
a roof fall occurred in the 1 west # 5 panel , # 8 entry , 31 crosscut . the fall measures approx . 20 ft long , 12 ft wide , and 8 ft thick . the area is supported with 4 foot fully grouted resin bolts , and 10 foot point anchor bolts .
on november 2 , employee was using sledge hammer to repair crusher . he said the last hit felt funny . the next day , his hand swelled up . on november 4 , he went to doctor . doctor said he had slight fracture to right hand . the doctor gave him splint , placed him on restricted duty . chris went for follow-up on november 13. doctor released him to full duty as of november 14 .
employee was injured when the shuttle car that he was operating in # 2 entry ( near spad # 10686 ) hit a hole in the bottom & jammed his head into the canopy . management became aware of this accident on 1/17/05 & he started missing work on 1/20/05 .
ee developed lumbar inflammation while operating haul truck . ee is on modified duty that does not require any sitting for periods of time . when back to full duty we will rotate ee into a piece of equipment that is less strenuous on him .
a customer truck driver pulled his truck onto the weighout scale . he was getting out of the truck to get his scale ticket when he slipped and fell to the ground . he was later diagnosed with fractured ribs . the injured customer driver was employed by j & s , inc .
injuried was removing bolts from a rotomill witha breaker bar . he hyper-extended his right shoulder causing numbness .
employee was trying to take the mudflaps off back of trailer , the driver of the trailer started to back up & it caught his rt . hand between flaps , hanger tires and landing gear . thus resulting in 3 smashed fingers , which were just bruised & not broken .
walking down no.5 entry toward mantrip , ee slipped and fell to the mine floor
a non-injury roof fall fell in the intersection of number two heading ( spad # 1012 ) and extended for 50 feet towards number one heading . fall was approx . 6.5 feet high . no equipment was involved .
employee was cutting the plastic civer of gas tank when knife slipped and cut his finger
a roof fall measuring 30'l x 18'w x 8'h occurred in the se no . 4 panel off of the no . 3 ne mains at the left crosscut of spad # 8424 , intersection of # 1 entry into # 2 entry approximately 5,400 ' outby the 002 mmu ( 001 section ) .
a roof fall was discovered between the 8o and 8p recovery faces in the # 3 entry . beginning inby the # 1 crosscut . the fall length is 90 feet long and 20 wide . the fall will be breakered off .
repairman was working on new 4 deck lime storage screen with several co-workers . at spprox . 9:45 am he reached up with his left hand to give a wrench to another repairman , and he suddenly lost his balance and fell forward on the disch . hood rail causing an injury to his rt . arm . rtw next day on restricted duty until healing is complete .
ee was on a scaffold 4 ' off ground welding hooks to hold electrical cables , he went to move and a board had been moved causing him to fall . lanyard caught him but he tit his rt hand on scaffold causing injury . he did not report to management . co-workers asked if he needed to go to dr , he stated he was okay . reported 11/12/12 . he has surgery for joint locked in flexion .
deep laceration to right ring finger while putting up 4 ft 5/8 '' roof bolt with a fletcher rrii
working on dredge , anitfreeze splattered and burned both wrists and elbow .
ee stated he was walking toward the rear of the roof bolting machine and a rock fell from the top and hit the bolting machine then ee s left shoulder and leg .
ee was moving backing plates for loading ramp . while putting in place , plate fell forward knocking ee to ground .
while bolting top the roof bolt operator turned to make a bolt up and a piece of roof fell striking the employee on the right ear causing a laceration , employee received first aid at scene and was transported to hrmc at prestonsburg ky , where he received stitches to his right ear .
employee tripped and fell while moving undercutter cable out of the roadway , tripped over cable .
team loaded excavator onto trailer for transport . employee climbed to top of equipment to get a height measurement for permitting . ee was not wearing fall arrest gear . while climbing back down , ee slipped on some hydraulic fluid and fell approx . 16 ' to the ground . ee's left arm hit the trailer beam , ee bounced off the track and landed on the ground .
a roof fall occurred on the galatia north , 7713 ' west entry # 3/3w headgate off 4w longwall . the fall was approx 40 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6-9 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners .
ee rolled a 55 gallon drum of antifreeze into the bucket of a loader . he rolled the drum approx.3 ' . at the end of his work shift ( 5 pm ) he was complaining of his back hurting .
while lifting an outboard motor to replace it , employee felt his back cramp up . employee removedmotor from workboat and placed it on the ground .
employee stated : was attempting to hang a piece of curtain in the # 8 entry , while doing so ee slipped on a rock causing ee to fall into the rib injuring right shoulder .
the east finlay elevator was down for more than 30 minutes due to the brakes needing adjusted . there was no entrapment .
ee had just got on section and was walking around the feeder to shovel the conveyor tail piece . he stepped on a piece of coal and twisted his knee .
employee was torqueing a bolt on the closing hoist with a hex head socket when the tip broke causing him to strike his rt thumb .
ee was adjusting forks on the forklift and smashed his finger .
ee was removing a belt clamp from the back of a p/u bed . the ee felt a sharp pain in his shoulder when he lifted the clamp and dropped it . the ee reported this to his supervisor and said he th ought he would be okay . the next day the pain persisted and he was taken to the doctor . on march 9 the employee again went to the doctor and was given a cortizone injection .
on september 7 , 2016 a employee reported that they had been bitten by a spider on the top of the right foot as ee dressed for shift . the employee refused medical treatment that day . on sept. 8 , 2016 the employee stated that the bite had become infected and wanted medical treatment . the employee was then placed on restricted duty due to cellulitis on the top of the right foot .
roof fall occurred in the e18 ( 022-0 ) working section , l-1 intake entry intersection adjacent to 3+30 distance along e18 # 4 belt just inby the tailpiece . fall measured 20 ' x 20 ' x unknown heig ht . area supported with 5 ' resin bolts and 64 '' combination bolts in a mixed pattern on 4'x4 ' centers . fall did not affect ventilation or passageof miners & fall area was dangered off .
the injured was trouble shooting the air compressor on an ton battery , track mounted , supply motor locomotive . he used his left hand to turn the fan on the compressor , which allowed the brushe s inside the compressors electric motor to contaact and allowed the fan to turn causing abraisons and lacerations to the palm and fingers of his left hand . required 18 sutures .
ee was walking beside off side of roof bolter slipped on rock and fell , lt. foreman landed on roof plate cutting forearm .
the victim was operating a skid steer loader underneath a belt conveyor that was being dismantled . a co-worker was in an elevated manlift & was using a cutting torch to remove a piece of 4 '' metal tubing attached to the leg supports of the belt conveyor . the tubing fell to the ground , tipped over into the front of the loader & struck the victim . he was hospitalized & died on 1/9/09 .
6 employees were taking the mill elevator up and the elevator became stuck at 7:19am . the mill elevator became unstuck at 7:57am . an electrician found the elevator had an overload . thyssen krupp was called out and did a pm on the mill elevator .
employee was shoveling wet sand in our sussex pit and went to turn sideways and then felt something pull in lower back .
tarping load , stated he stepped back , missed pallet and fell on left leg .
ee is not sure of the date of the accident , but did not get reported to the company until 10/14/2015 . ee was cleaning in the lab and he aggravated his groin area while lifting a box . went to the doctor before reporting to the companying and doctor said he has a lingual hernia .
employee ( foreman ) did not turn power off and lock out 486 volt electric box . cut cable and madea splice . was electricuted . taken to mount carmel hospital . we were notified of his death approx 2:00 pm .
employee was removing a metal band from a lift of bacon straps , when the strap was cut it sprung back lacerating the employee's right forearm . ppe was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , mining equipment was not a factor , mining systems was not a factor , miner proficiency may have been a factor .
ee plugged in the cathead for the # 4 bolting machine and set up the breaker . the bolting machine was turned on and an arc flash came from the cathead . the flash caused a burn injury to the ee's face .
employee alleged that he hurt his shoulder as he was pushing up on ventilation tubing that was hanging from the roof of the mine . on 7-21-2010 , the employee received treatment for impingement syndrome and supraspinatus tendontis , with the impingement as a result of chronic bone spurs . this is being classified as an illness .
employee was picking up wheel chocks and felt a pop in the left shoulder . employee has been receiving treatment for the past year while working full duty . surgery was approved with wc and employee become a lti on 6/2/2017 .
the employee was operating a roof bolter , installing angle brackets . he had his foot on the drill mast so he could reach to install the bracket . his foot slipped causing him to fall . he caught himself with his left hand , causing him to strain his shoulder . he sought medical attention on 1/15/2014 . he has been held out of service pending an mri .
we had a rock fall on the # 5 beltline . this is a non-producing mine . all equipment has been removed from the mine . fall was approx 100 ft long , 5 to 6 foot high . all approaches have been timbered and dangered off . we will not be cleaning up this fall due to the mine being closed .
operating dozer on steep slope , pulling muscle in left side of chest . opr did not report accident until 12:30 pm - 10/30/02 .
ee 2nd shift foreman-grinding on shaft of snuberroller , grinder caught and spun around and cut rib on right forearm . sent to hospital and recieved 4 stitches .
imerys ' forklift operator driving forward couldn't see in front due to size of forklift load . forklift struck pedestrian/contractor employee who was injured upon being caught under moving forklift . imerys ' operator should have been driving loaded forklift in reverse instead of going forward with load .
while making screen repairs a piece of screen rubber slid down and struck ee on the back of his right ankle .
they were finishing a belt splice . ee was pounding the splice making sure all nails and splices were down . ee was feeling splice to make sure ends were down . ee got hit on the left ring finger with hammer .
victim stuck his hand in a confined area to release a chain that had hung on a motor frame . operator of front end loader said he made the sudden move without signaling him . by the time the ope rator saw him make this sudden move the chain had become tight and pinched the end of his finger off .
perfroming maintenance , piece of metal hit left foot . swelling later after going home . hospital treted and released same evening .
contractor was placing the pin in the draw head to connect the locomotive to the rockduster and smashed left middle finger .
while putting the tongs on the kelly bar to break the tool joint , the injured ee was under the tong , trying to set it . slack in the tong line allowed the tong to roll down after it lost its bite on the kelly bar , thus striking the injured ee on the shoulder . the ee was sitting on a crib block , his tailbone was broken .
ee , employee of allied security inc. suffered an apparent heart attack and was found by a fellow ee in the guard building at the # 2 gate of pine ridge coal co. at approximately 0730 on 4-2-01 .
ee was driving forklift across dock plate @ truck loading docks . the truck that was being loaded was uneven , creating a 2 '' rise . when the front wheels of forklift hit rise , forklift stopped su ddenly , causing ee to lunge forward & suffer lower back strain . he was wearing seatbelt . due to persistant pain he was taken for med attn 3/25/02 . diagnosed w/minor back strain given medicati
none - fault area . inby spad # 54 # 4 entry belt # 1. found on preshift .
setting cribs and bars along track entry . he was holding a crib to block above the beam and his co-worker was using a sledge hammer to make it fit . the co-worker missed the crib and struck the ee right index finger . x-ray showed a break in the tip of his right index finger . he returned to work his next shift on regular duty
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by management in an intersection located in the 22 right headings . the fall was in the # 4 resin roof bolts . the fall was cleaned up and the area resup ported .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 130 mine on the old # 9 belt in the # 5 entry 2 brks . inby spad # 7862. the fall measured 45 ' long , 4.5 ' thick and 19 ' wide . the area was developed on 10/29/07 . no injuries were reported .
ee was shoveling concrete . he reached too far with a shovel & felt a tingly feeling down his left leg . his supervisor placed him on light duty for 3 days . on 7/14/11 , ee was taken for medical treatment . he was released with restrictions for seven days . ee is now on light duty at the concord mine site . he will return to full duty 7/21/11 per doctors orders .
an unintentional roof fall occurred # 3 north belt and track entry at spad # 1902. size of fall was estimated to be 150'l x 20-22'w x 4-7'h . the area had been supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts with supplemental support consisting of 9 ' cable bolts . no injuries , ventilation was not interrupted , belt and track were caught under fall . fall has been cleaned up .
ee was getting ready to wash out the conveyor while he was holding the water hose he asked for the water to be turned on . when the wrong hose was turned on he turned to get away from it and twisted his right knee ,
haul truck 930 traveling from the 45 stockpile , section 3 area towards the north/south haul road went through the water bar and slowing down for a stop sign , the operator and trainer heard a loud bang which startled the operator . the operator reported some pain in lower left back after the event had occurred . operator was seen by a nurse practitioner and placed ee off work .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at spad # 2485. fall was in the # 4 and # 5 entry . ventilation was not altered , passage of persons was not altered . all entrances to fall were breakered off . area will not be rehabilitated . fall measured length 50 ' , width 20 ' , height 6 ' .
hanging bottom roller , had bracket on one side while crawing under belt . bracket came off , striking him on side of knee .
after ee completed grinding a weld on a handrail with a 4 '' grinder , he raised his face shield and a small debris particle came off the faceshield , went between his eyebrow and glasses and got is his left eye . he missed one day of work for a doctor's exam to check his eye . he was treated and he was prescribed eye drops . there is no permanent damage to the left eye .
one miner was entrapped on the miracle run elevator for approx . 2 hours . the rails the car runs on experienced seasonal expansion which caused the safety circuit to trip on the car . schindler elevator services corrected the issue .
cleaning cement dust in finish mill bldg . knock-ed dust down and landed in face . washed eyes outseveral times at the plant , irritation continuedtook ee to the e.r . for complete washing . ee saw dr. , local optomitrist the next day , follow-up .
man standing on rotar-cleaning boulders and mud from between the rotar and crusher backwall . when rotar broke free and started to rotate , he started to step off rotar when he got foot caught .
ee filed for hearing loss . rec notice 7/26/02 . last day worked 9/6/01 .
ee was installing a new chain sprocket on the digger drive . after the completion of the project , ee felt pain in his right hip . plant manager was not notified of injury until 3/15/2006 . ee was seen by dr. & recommended to have mri and be seen by surgeon . ee underwent surgery on 3/21/2005 for herniated disc .
he was located near the coal rib approx . 12 ' outby the last row of bolts in the 3 lt. crosscut when a rib rolled and struck him from behind . the rib consisted of coal and rock was 65 '' high . th e piece that is believed to have struck him was from behind . the rib consisted of coal and rock was 65 '' high . the piece that is believed to have struck him was approx . 15 '' x8 '' x115 '' . there were
the roof fall occured at 140 block on # 15 belt in crosscut 5 to 4 spad # 2913 the fall did not block any airways or travelways . we supported all entrances to fall and dangered fall off . we will not clean fall up . demensions 18'w x 70 ' l x 10 ' high .
ee stated while loading belt structure , he felt burning pain in his upper groin area .
south 4 , 1 entry , 4 block , mmu 005 , 3-way intersection . 90 ft long x 17 ft wide x 8 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , roof mats , cable bolts . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
a fully trained miner was lifting a jack when ee felt pain in groin area . the injury was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
ee was riding in bucket of ram car the car bounced on bottom of mine & ee hit the top bruised back & pelvis
employee was removing drill cab door preparing machine for highway travel . door slipped as it was being placed on machine causing a lacerationof approximately 1 '' in employee's left palm .
ee was helping the electrical dept . pull wires thru a conduit along the side of # 4894 conveyor belt . the wires hung up then came loose . as the wires came loose ee stepped back to maintain his balance . ee s foot hit a belt support beam on the ground causing him to fall backwasrd . the sudden slack int he rope that was attached to the wires that were being pulled thru the conduit caus
employee was walking while carrying a battery bell connector and a 20 ' piece of battery lead wire and felt a sharp pain in back . ee started missing work 8/11/2016 .
ee was helping to install a tilt cylinder on a komatsu loader . as he was trying to align the cylinder with the mounting bracket it was moved by the boom truck operator and he stated he was jolted , causing pain in his lower back . ee continued to work until 3-22-11 .
ee was unloading crib blocks as he picked on up & tossed it , he caught his right hand between a block & a pipe & mashed his right hand
tooth for a 992-c bucket slid off root falling 4 1/2 ' landing ont he ee 6 ft behind steel toe area .
employee was roofbolting . a bolt bent and slipped off canopy hitting the employee above the right eyebrow causing a concussion .
ee was stepping down from the bumper of the service truck and slipped , twisting his knee . ee tried to finish his shift , but couldn't due to the pain . he then went to the boone memorial hospital where he was refered to a specialist . he then met with the specialist on august 28 , 2008. he was put off work until sept. 2 , 2008. he was diagnosed as having a bruised bone .
at 8:00am a roof fall was found at # 1 east main , # 5 entry one crosscut inby . distance from the active face is approximately 4000 feet in the intake . size of fall is approximately 50 feet long by 20 feet wide and 5 feet thick . the fall was breakered off . these works were developed in 1994 .
while lifting a section of grating , ee felt a pain in his abdomen . note - no restrictions , no lost time until corrective surgery , many med . exams .
the ee was climbing up and down off the boom foot and sections to use an optic scope for leveling . the ee began to complain of pain in his groin area .
ee has complaints of a sore left wrist due to operating a loader .
employee was welding beside another welder & the other welder arked his welder , causing injured ee's left eye to get severe burns .
2 employees were positioning two drainage pipes to join together . in the process of aligning and joining , one ee had his finger caught . the impact resulted in a laceration and fracture to his right ring finger ( last joint at fingernail ) .
ee was using a 6 '' angle grinder to cut a lifting eye from a steel beam when the cutting disc of the grinder broke causing the ee to lose control of the grinder . the grinder fell back onto the employees left arm causing lacerations to the arm .
injured worker ( iw ) was changing screens in vibratory screen deck . iw was laying on screen media while using a pry bar to remove screen from fastening rail . the pry bay slipped from under screen media and opposite end struck iw in the forehead .
while bleeding water line , it came apart striking shoulder . this was a notice only claim until 12/4/17 when ee began missing work .
employee exited road grader that was being used to grade road areas after a significant snowfall . upon exiting the grader he slipped onto ice and broke a rib ( s ) . surface had snow/ice . he did not fall onto anything other than the ground .
west mains 11 entry , 29 block , mmu 002 , 3-way intersection . 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8 ' high . support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
ee was sawing thru a water line with a hacksaw when the saw slipped and struck his left hand , rsulting in a laceration that required 2 stitches . ee did not lose any time as a result of this in cident .
employee was helping to install `` v '' belts on a heavy media sump pump & while installing the belts he got his finger caught . protective gloves were not being worn .
ee was assisting in changing out screen decks . they were placing this deck into the upper slot when the ee injured left shoulder .
ee was moving `` i '' beam on a trolley . trapped hand between moving `` i '' beam and and stationary `` i '' beam .
# 4 entry roof fall just inby 5867 station . a shuttle car was caught x-cut 4-3 and 4 man personel carrier inby in # 4 .
employee received surgery to repair a right rc tear on 3/30/07 . he began losing time his next scheduled shift on 4/3/07 . there was no specific incident that resulted in his condition . his treating physician states that the rotator cuff tear was a result of his employee as a mechanic in underground coal mines .
ee was raising belt structure at 20 block on 1-south belt . he was using a `` bumper '' jack . while doing so , the jack slipped out allowing structure to drop . he had his right index finger pinched between a belt chain and belt hanger , while adjusting the slack .
employee slipped while dismounting from an endloader .
employee was washing out a repulper screw that was stopped up . as he started washing , he inhaled aqua ammonia vapors from the product .
while loading a hangup in a drawpoint , rocks started to fall . in the process of exiting the drawpoint , the ee tripped over a rock & twisted his left ankle , resulting in a sprain .
ee was using a saw to cut a granite stone . the stone twisted out of ee's hands , causing his rt.hand to slide into the saw blade . he received a cut between his thumb & first digit of his rt . hand . possible nerve involvement .
ee was struck on lip by cont miner conveyor chain link
ee was putting together water line for the continuous miner with a banding tool . his right hand slipped & his right pinky finger was caught between the water line & the banding tool while the hammer was coming down . he mashed his pinky resulting in an open wound , loss of nail , & bone was broken at the tip of the finger . no lost work days . returned to normal work activity .
ee was sitting on a 12 '' block welding on parts in front of him . he went to reposition himself and lost his balance falling onto his left side . the left side of his mid-section struck a rock as he landed .
employee stated he injured his back while sweeping the floor . he also stated he had been cutting wood at home which may have contibuted to injury . he suffered upper back muscle spasms .
inside coal mill # 2 line removing lower skirt . after loosening skirt employee rotated skirt around to the door . employee tried to lift skirt while lying on side . lost time - rtw date unknown . possible recur of old back inj of 1/4/01 . chiro care began 8/29/01 .
employee reported soreness in right wrist from repetitive motion cleaning sieves in qc lab . report only at this time . visited doctor on june 9 and was put on restricted duty .
employee was granted an award from w va workers compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
steel plate was pressed down and tacked in place . employee then took position on top of plate to continue welding . while sitting on plate performing job duties , the tacks failed causing a sudden release of stored energy jarring employees lower back . emploee did not start feeling pain until 2/20/07 and requested to be taken to the clinic .
whilw working on setting new head drive on # 3 section employee was helping pulling new belt through drive rollers when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on left arm near his elbow resulting in 7 sutures to close .
alledged incident was to have occurred while this employee and his co-worker were attempting to raise the bottom belt up . cause of this injury was overexertion , improper lifting . compliance wi th rules/regs a factor ; miner proficiency a factor . safety equipment not a factor ; mining equipment/systems could be a factor .
employee sprained his right knee in the # 4 heading while marking centers , when he stepped on a rock . he continued to work until the doctor took him off on 10/23/08 for arthroscopic knee surgery . he started to lose time as of that date .
ee poking thru a powershot shot port when he struck his left elbow
ee provoked another ee who punched him causing him to fall on his elbow and back .
a mine mechanic was operating a diesel mantrip along the m5 travelway when it appears the vehicle struck the coal rib and rolled on its side . the mechanic was partially ejected from the ride and the canopy fell on ee chest .
employee was descending dozer . ee stepped from dozer to stepladder . the ladder went sideways . employee tried to catch self by grabbing hose on the dozer's lift cylinder , but ee's hand slipped , causing ee to hit the left side of head against the dozer filter and fell to the ground .
two unintentional roof falls were discovered on 5-9-03 the first fall was located in entry no . 6 near spad no 1405. the fall measured 4 1/2 ' in height by 20 ' in length by 20 ' in width . the sec ond was in entry no 7 near spad no 1429. it was 4 1/2 ' h by 20 ' w by 20 ' length . both falls happened approx 3:00 pm .
employee was in the process of loading up the back of service truck # 1142. as the employee stepped down off of the back of the truck , ee's left foot slipped off of the step and caught ee's right foot on the top step . this caused ee's right ankle to twist before ee stepped on the ground . the employee suffered a right ankle sprain .
ee was tightening bolt , the bolt broke and the ee dropped the wrench on his hand .
the shuttlecar reel was broken that winds the cable up . ee was moving the car while the operator of the car was pulling the cable . when ee exited the shuttle car , injury to his l knee occurred .
ee was hooking his welder leads up , it grounded out . the brass connector blew up and put 2 pieces of brass into his left eye .
ee was open/closing air door , latch came down and hit hand , causing an open fracture to the left hand pinky finger . ee was transported by light vehicle to renown in reno where surgery was required to pin the fracture . ee unable to return to the mine site until after follow-up on 02/17/17 .
employee was driving a mac 3 at brk 65 and hit a rock in roadway . the steering wheel on the mac 3 twisted his left arm .
while driving to casteel with road marked as an escape route . road had been shot out and not properly barricaded , allowing ee to drive off of an 8 ' bluff in chest deep water . ee hurt leg and knee . he was taken to county dr and to an orthopedic specialist . he is now off work beginning 7/3/06 waiting for knee surgery .
ee struck hamer against metal a piece flew off strking ee's thumb
ee was crawling out from underneath a feeder .
an unintentional roof fall has occured at the 43xc of the 2nd main east extending to the 44xc in the # 3 entry . the fall was approximately 60 feet in length and approximately 7 feet high and 16 feet wide . the fall was timbered and dangered out .
miner was drilling and drilled into a water course . water washed out of the hole and washed mudd into the miners ' eyes .
driver had reaction to spray used at home . we called msha 800 phone number , were told to complete this form . driver is fine , was back at work following day .
while unloading sono tube fiber forms from truck , strained right arm .
employee was loading 42 inch belt framing from the ground into a trailer . during this process he felt a pain in his back . he left the mine , later sought medical atention and began to miss work on 1/4/07 .
employee was installing a 40 ft long - 6 '' diameter alum . pipe across length of sump . he was raising one end of pipe to top of high wall in sump , while he was standing on loose rock that was wet . his foot slid and he received a slight muscle sprain to his neck muscle .
ee was changing bits when draw rock fell out and struck him on head and shoulders .
employee was troubleshooting a furuwaka dcr 20 drill and finger was caught between moving parts . ee received a finger laceration requiring sutures . ee was wearing cut protective gloves but the impact cut through the gloves .
noise induce hearing loss . dater of idagnosis 8019092. date diagnosis received 9-18-02 .
ee crawled under scalping screen to tighten beltwhen he did this he felt a sting in his back
a roof fall occured on this date . the fall measured 18 ' by 25 ' and was 6 ' in thickness . the fall was located in the # 1 entry of b-4 mains between breaks 4 and 5. ventilation was not affected . the area was previously supported by 5 ' hy-tech bolts and 12 ' cable bolts .
employee stumbled forward . as ee was falling , ee grabbed onto a mixer to catch self and strained right shoulder .
employee was cleaning a chute with a jack hammer . material broke free and that caused the jack hammer to fall against his finger smashing it . he was wearing gloves at the time of the acciden t .
on 07/11/2018 while doing routine shop maintenance the employee realized something was in ee's eye . ee attempted to wash ee's eye out but did not report the incident . on 07/12/2018 ee went to the doctor who removed a piece of dirt from ee's eye . the employee was not wearing ee's safety glasses .
ee was moving impact rollers from a pallet to a storage rack when one of the rollers moved rolling on top of left hand . ee pulled ee's hand out and felt a pop and pain in the wrist . evaluated by physician and returned to work with restrictions .
ee was walking to a barge pump & tripped over a clod of dirt . this resulted in a sore ankle . ee continued to work without restriction . he was examined by a dr. who found no problem . ee continu ed to report soreness in his ankle & was seen by a specialist on 10/24/03 . no tears or fractureswere noted on x-rays or on mri . we were notified today that ee is receiving p.t . now reportable
a roof fall in the west panel # 1 x-cut # 4 entry measuring approximately 40 ' x 18 ' x 6 ' . the area was mine in june 2002 & supported with 6 '' tension rebar roof bolts . the fall was caused by a hi dden slip in the mine roof .
employee was working on the 121 pump . while lifting a section of pipe with a comealong , the cover for the 121 pump's leg gave way , causing cover to fall .
a roof fall occurred in the no . 3 entry of the 3rd panel west off the submain north at spad 44+33 ( belt entry ) . the fall was approximately 80 ' long x 17 ' wide x 10 ' high .
ee was changing out a tail roller and a ratchet slipped and hit him in lower lip . 2 sutures .
two mechanics were straighting the glange on a cooler tube elbow . our mechanic was using a rosedub to heat the flonge and the other mechanic was striking it with a sledgehammer . when striking the glange the hammer had did not catch the flange fully and continued the swing around and struck the other mechnaic who was standing too close in the forehead . he received a laceration contu
ee was splicing a cable at the time of this incident . he was using a hammer type crimper and when he swung a 3 lb . hammer at the crimper he missed and struck his thumb instead . this action split his thumb open causing a laceration that required stitches to repair .
ee alleges he was climbing down the ladder and stepped into a hole twisting his left knee as he was turning to walk .
employee was plastering a stopping with b-bond . ee developed a rash on his right wrist/ forearm area .
the miner was standing over a 3 '' discharge waterline from a diesel powered pump . the discharge waterline had a small leak in it . when the line became pressurized , it tore striking the miner in the left knee .
unintentional roof fall 6th north panel # 5 entry . 18'l x 18'w x 7'h . bolted with 6 ' tr bolts , covered up bolt structure , will be cleaned up .
employee slipped and fell while getting out of komatsu 500 front end loader . laceration above ear .
employee sprained his right ankle when he stepped on a peice of metal when walking down a concrete walkway .
employee was washing salt inside shaft about 580 ' from collar . while moving spray gun his left arm was hit by a loose piece of salt from above . fractured l arm . started losing time 2-7-06 .
ee was confirmed with a 10 db hearing shift with over 25 db hearing loss in both ears .
employee alleges injuried back shoveling rock . he stated felt pain after 10-15 shovels of rock . the ee at work 35 minutes & this was first labor onshift . the ee stated , he has a bad back , he was treat & released at hosp . er & sched to see orthopaedic spec & mri . diagnosis states has 5 bulging disk & that phy . therapy and anti-inflam drugs are rx , followed by doctor visit
the employee was using a utiity knife to cut a fan belt when the blade contacted the palm of his left hand cuasing a laceration . the laceration required 13 stiches .
ee stepped up onmto the lunch table area to get a nozzle for a foam pack . as he stepped off the lunch table area , he put his left foot down upon a cable that other ees were pulling thru the ki tchen area to a power center to be nipped in . as he stepped own from the table area , he placed his foot upon a cable which in turn rolled his foot out , twisting his ankle , falling forward to
ee alleges that on her 1st load on 7-25-00 , she hit a hole in the 30 pit causing her to bounce in the seat . ee alleges that she was wearing her seatbelt at the time . ee did not report this inc ident on her time card nor did she advise her supervisor that she had sustained an injury until 1200 noon on 7-26-00. ee recieved a restricted duty release for 7-27-00 but on 8-1-00 dr would
ee stated that while walking down an incline , near mine office , he slipped on some gravel and twisted his left knee .
the ee was hanging ventilation tubing when a wire broke , and 2 joints of tubing fell striking him on the head .
ee states he has a contusion to his left elbow . the only event he can remember is he slipped and fell in the truck , landing on his elbow on 6-20-02 .
ee was using a pry bar to dislodge a piece of scrap steel . when it would not come loose , he started to walk around to the other side to pry on it again , when the steel broke free and landed on his left foot . ee was wearing steel toed boots .
foreman was making up roofbolts when draw rock struck him in lower back .
emp was rerouting the miner cable on the miner . he lifted the miner nip onto the back of the mantrip and felt a sharp pain in the center of his stomach . went to doctor on 4/30/09 and was placed on restrictions .
employee was peroforming scheduled maintenance on 35665 truck . he was loosening the drain plug.and while doing so , he struck a torsion bar withhis right elbow . he was released to full duty on 11-29-02 .
ee states the while egressing off a utility loader ee had back pain . when ee was asked if ee jumped or fell ee stated it was a normal dismount with 3 points of contact . on 3/16/18 ee was diagnosed with a back strain and placed on restrictions .
ee was moving a slab of stone to be split when he pinched his left middle finger between the stone he was moving and an adjacent stationary block of stone . he sustained a laceration and fracture to his finger . physician instructions : no work till re-evaluation on 11-11-05 .
rock fall spad # 1850 6 left section # 6 entry . 50 ft x 20 ft x 5 ft .
injured person is not a direct employee of omega surface mining , llc . ee is a truck driver employed by a contractor to haul coal from omega's jobsite . ee came to the jobsite and got out of ee's truck to see if ee's truck bed was clear ; ee slipped and fell on ice injuring ee's left hip .
employees finger was caught in a rotating jack leg steel , causing a tendon to break and six stiches to be issued to close a cut on his right little finger .
the ee threw the off spec chute . when the kiln got back on spec , the ee had to pull the chute back up in order for the material to go to the stockpile . when the ee threw the chute , he pulled a muscle in the middle of his back .
he was walking along beltlines and ran into the emergency stop cable eyelet with his right shoulder . please note : did not seek medical attentionuntil 11/29/01 .
a roof fall occurred on unit 1 ( mmu-0010 ) in the xcut between # 4 and # 5 entries at the 5330 ' station . height -- 3-4.5 ' , width 16.75 ' , length -- 31 ' .
miner was cleaning out kiln 4 preheater with a jackhammer when he strained his right shoulder .
ee was washing the chute and had left arm over the chute when the platform ee was standing on broke and ee's left arm got caught on the top of the chute .
maintenance person removed gloves while attempting to fasten screen above a belt guard . this person caught his hand in the expanded metal screen , cutting the index finger which required 5 stitches . ee released to regular work duty by attending physician ( no restriction ) .
employee was working in clinker storage area . he slipped several times on loose clinker . the repeated slipping aggrevated a previous back injury . he did not report injury until 5/22/02 .
ee was clearing dust collector pipes , when ee was clearing the pipe the tipping valve started moving and hit ee above the left brow causing a laceration that required medical attention . the laceration was closed and ee placed on modified duty .
employee was pulling a 100 lb . propane bottle onto the elevator , had the bottle tipped at an angle to clear the lip of the threshold when the safety guard employee was using to pull the bottle came off and the bottle fell striking left leg and lacerating thigh . employee had 8 stitches , a tetanus shot and prophylactic antibiotics prescribed .
stacking landscape rock , strained groin . ee heard a pop - belly button hernia . ee did not report to supervisor until 2/16/04 .
mucker bucket caught on rib left side pinning ee between mucker & rib
ee believed airlock was plugged . he did not de-energize machine . did not use lock out procudure . ee remved a plate from the chute and stuck his hand into the discharge chute . his hand contracted the energized airlock and finger ( 3 ) were cut off .
employee was jacking up a flat car and as ee was in the motion of standing up ee felt a pop in the right knee . employee then went to raleigh general after the shift ended and it was determined ee needed an mri . mri results showed a torn meniscus on 5-20-16. note : injury report was received on 5-20-16 .
ee states that while working on the p5b motor , he was cutting electrical tape with his pocket knife . he slipped , cutting his left wrist .
employee was cleaning out conex and tripped over a pallet falling on his hand causing pain in his wrist .
employee stepped down out of fuel truck onto a rock twisting his right ankle / foot . note : employee was not put in a walking boot until 5/4/11 due to x-ray was unable to be read by the dr due to swelling .
ee stepped off ladder of 793 haul truck into a hole and strained his knee . uneven ground
ee was using a hammer on a piece of metal , rust flew into his right eye .
injured ee was operating bobcat loader , placing rock in dump truck bed . a rock rolled backwards out of bucket into operator's compartment , striking ee on right lower leg , lacerating it . three suture's were required to close the wound .
on 11/3/15 the mine operator was informed that the employee could no longer work at full duty due to a partial tear of the acl in the left knee . on 10/22/15 the employee jumped from a ladder as the ladder was struck by a 28-inch ventilation tube elbow which was pushed into the ladder by a rib roll .
employee was lifting a 50 lb bag of material when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . possible muscle strain in the right upper arm and shoulder .
ee was using cutting torch to cut a piece of metal . the metal was not secured and after it was cut it fell off the bench onto ee's right foot . ee had x-ray and returned to regular duties on 1/13/06 . ee called in on 2/13/06 , stating he was having problems with his foot . 2/13/06 would be the first day lost due to his injury . release form is on file for 1/13/06 .
ee was placed on light duty restrictions after his neck was jarred by a large ore chunk being dropped into the box of his production truck . ee on restrictions from 3/31/00 to date and physical therapy has been ordered .
ee was unseting a heater tube into # 5-2 vertical heater . routinely , a 30 # rivet gun is mounted on the trailing end of the tube to help drive the tube in . the tube got stuck and ee used a pair of pliers to twist the tube in an effort to get it moving . the tube dropped approx . 3 ' and pinched ee's right hand between the rivet gun and heater baffle . fractured rt . ring finger . ee is on
the employee was positioned outby the 2nd row of bolts & was bolting the top in the no.3 left cross-cut . when the atrs was lowered , a piece of roof rock fell & struck his foot .
an unintentional roof fall was found on 6/9/2017 at approximately 11:30am . the fall was in the high voltage entry at break 224 approximately 1 break outby spad 5357. the approximate dimensions of the fall are 20'x 20'x 7 '
miner was climbing up a raise to clean down muck from previous blast . miner was up about 30 feet on the ladder when ladder swung away from the rib . ladder had loosened up from precious blast and allowed muck to fall from above about 8 feet and struck miner on left shoulder , arm , and back . 12/17/12 placed on authorized time loss until mri in 2 weeks .
member was in the deck operating the bolter . he went to reposition himself and stuck his hand on top of the canopy to pull himself up and hit the tram . the bolter moved , smashing his right hand into the top . member immediately ceased to work and was taken by ambulance to camc general where he was told his right hand/middle finger had to be amputated .
ee was installing roof bolts in top , when roof bolt plate slid down roof bolt , hitting operator on left arm , cutting his left forearm .
a roof fall occurred in the travelway ( # 5 entry ) 140 feet inby survey station 156. the fall was approximately 40 feet long x 18 feet wide x 4 feet high .
ee was welding sparks caught pant leg on fire and burned his left leg . 1st & 2nd degree burns .
ee rolled ankle while dismounting dozer . physician prescribed limited use of ankle .
removing spitzer from mill with chipping hammer , when a metal fragment came off hammer , penatrating employees right middle finger .
while exiting a man-lift basket , ee claims ee stepped & slipped on a rock on the ground . ee had no pain to right knee , until mid day same day .
roof fall discovered on the north mains , outby section & loading points . developement date : nov. 2006 , 300 ft. coverage . area bolted with 6 ft double lock bolts - 7/8 '' dia , grade 75 , 8x8 inch roof plates with roof mat installed . fall : 16 ft wide x 16 ft long x 10 ft high . no injuries , no equip involved , no ventilation or escapeway blockage . notification made within 15 minutes .
on 7/25/02 the miner put a garbage bag into a dumpster & felt a pain . on 11/4/02 he began losing time .
12 '' drisco pipe was being pulled by utility vehicle . employee was standing next to parked dodge truck . as pipe cleared dodge truck it quickly slid over and struck ee on lower left leg .
employee had completed repairs on haul truck . ee was in the process of removing a 150 ton rated jack and cribbing out from under the truck . in the process ee lost control of the jack and pinched finger . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
when ee stepped off pinner , he stepped in a puddle of oil left by miner and strained his right knee .
as b shaft skip hoist was leaving the pocket , damage occurred resulting in the hoist being inoperable for more than 30 minutes .
employee was steam cleaning the steady rest for the leblond lathe . when he finished one side , he was in the process of turning it over when it fell onto his left hand index finger . steady rest weighed approx . 200 lbs .
ee was going to empty the dumpster at the dryer . he was looking up at the belt and watching the poles that hold the belt up . when the slide shift of the forklift hit a pole his right thumb got hung in the steering wheel . his body went forward & it pushed his shoulder back . he went to dr. & 1st aid only 5-5-01 after work . became reportable 7/27 went he took of for surgery . est 6-8 we
employee was changing bags in a dust collector got fugitive dust in eye . empoyee was wearing safety goggles over his safety glasses at the time .
employee was un-banding precut structural steel . when the bands were cut , the steel shifted and a piece landed on the top of the employees foot . frature of third metatarsel bone of right foot .
employee was using a 59lb jackhammer when he felt a pain in his left elbow . employee had seen his private physician two months ago concerning pain in his elbow and was diagnosed with brusitis . the work comp dr. said the jackhammer vibration had aggrevated a pre-existing condition .
ee was using an electric saw to cut boards for a floor . he set the saw down after making a cut and it jammed up and struck his hand when a small piece of wood dislodged from it while the blade was still spinning .
on a rainy day employee got wet loading a truck then resumed bagging lime . he noticed a burning sensation but didn't take proper precautions resulting in lime burn . ee retrained in preventing lime burns . no loss time would have occured if properly reported to employer .
ee was working in the welding slop and was grinding the slag of steel . when he set the grinder down on the ground , the wheel was still spinning and it slipped and scraped across his leg , causi ng a gash in his leg .
ee bumped his elbow on body of mancarrier . he later noticed fluid on the elbow . he saw the dr. on 11-6-00. fluid was aspirated from the elbow on that date and he was released with no restricti ons .
ee was driving truck , there was a curve at the bottom of the hill ; he was going too fast and the truck landed on its side .
ee was loading items on the cage and pinched hand between cage door and cage . he was seen at the clinic , sutures were required , and he was released to restricted duty .
ee was installing a roof bolt and strap when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on the head and back .
an ignition occurred on the longwall face . methane from horizontal dogas hole ignited .
ee was helping the section electrician service the right continuous miner , when a piece of rock fell out between the rib bolt and the inside bolt , striking him on the right side of his head , neck and arm .
ee was changing the 60 '' belt troughing roll . the roll was dropped and caught ee's hand between the framework and roll .
ee and crew were riding in the mantrip of the surface , at approx.25 crosscut on # 3 beltline . operator of the mantrip warned the crew that the brakes were malfunctioning and would not slow the mantrip . at some point on # 3 beltline mr mckinne jumped from the mantrip causing multiple strains and contusions . the mantrip derailed in curve at # 2 beltdrive striking # 1 beltline
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal , at the 4n longwall tailgate ( 3 north headgate entry # 1 @ 914 north , crosscut 18 ( blocked tailgate ) ) . the fall's length , width and thickness are unknown . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will not be cleaned up .
mechanic failed to disablefan while guards were off . when proceeding to do maintenance work , fancaught left thumb result in cut that required one stitche and prescription for pain .
ee was replacing spray bars on the floatcells over an extended period of time ( 2-3 wks ) . at home , on the night of 4/6/01 he developed a rash on his body . the following day he developed an anap hylactic reaction .
employee was moving the chocks on a radial stacker and was bumped by another employee who was operating the skid steer . employee thought ee was ok but ee went to the doctor the next day and had a hairline fracture to one rib .
ee stated operating a mine pickup truck along the mine travelway . bumped his head against an object along the mine roof when adjacent to x cut 54 of the 1st . main south supply entry . unsure of what he struck .
ee stepped on cross beam to gain advantage to see over conveyor belt ; foot slipped and he jerked his arm exasperating a preexisting non-work related shoulder injury he was being seen for .
ee was fixing feed chain , hand slipped while pulling chain , hitting hand on feed rail . laceration to right wrist requiring 8 staples .
an unintentional roof fall occured in the intersection between no.7 & no.8 entries in the return airway 800 ' outby the section located at spad no.2613 . the fall measured 25'l x 25'w x 6-7 ' thick . the airway or travel is not affected by this fall .
ee was pulling shields using infared system . he was bent over looking at # 161 shield to see why it didn't pull all the way in . he stood up with his back to # 160 shield when it started to pull because he did not pause the system . the shearer op noticed it so he hit the quick-stop . however , the shieldman had rt foot pinned under the pontoon & partially between pontoon & relay bar .
employee was putting a battery on a john deere excavator when the battery suddenly blew up . the employee received initial evaluation on the day of occurence for ringing in ears and given no diagnosis . employee was referred to an audiologist for evaluation .
employee was installing a 10 ' section of 12 inch screw conveyor housing when it slipped , pinching his rt . index finger between the housing and a 2 '' flange .
ee , injured , and co-workers had completed placing four ( 4 ) dragline bucket teeth on the shoe of the dragline . ee was in process of scooting them back when one tooth shifted , catching the top portion of his little finger on his right hand . he sustained a mashing type injury along with a broken bone .
ee was bending a roof bolt to put in top when itslipped & spun around . the bearing plate caught ee arm lacerating it
three ee were grouting pillars in a-4 pillar area , when the 3/4 '' grout hose became plugged with hard cement . the hose blew apart int he ee's right hand spraying cement in his right and left ey es . ee was taken to dr where they washed out hiseyes dr referred ee to dr an optometrist in farmington . ee was diagnosed with severe irritation to both eyes . which were bandaged a follow up v
ee opened the electrical panel door and was shocked . ee then fell back hitting a vice attached to a work bench dislocating ee's shoulder . ee had burns to ee's right middle & ring finger & dislocated ee's left shoulder .
employee was attempting to make a road around a stock pile and when scraping with the 240 volvo loader he hit a rock causing the loader to stop quickly and the employee to injure his back . employee has suffered a sprain to his back
ee was using hand held knife & sharpening tool improperly . he was not keeping his eyes on task , slashing knife across the back of his hand . cut forefinger & thumb of left hand needing sutures .
50lb bag of dust busted & was going down belt line , ee tried to remove bag & caugt right hand in conveyor .
he was placing a stone on a pallet and the stone slipped and crushed his middle finger on his left hand . the finger was cut badly requiring 4 stiches .
body motion -- ee was trying to move power cable for the es17 while pulling cable he felt pain in shoulder area .
the three men were in the process of replacing a worn pipe in the prep plant at the time of this incident had removed a 27 '' x 33 '' piece of metal grating from the floor . co-worker was cutting t he bolts out of the old pipe and injured was watching him . he asked injured to get him a wrench . he turned forgetting the hole & walked into it . he apparently fell forward struck his chest on
an unplanned explosion of coal dust occurred in the tilden 1 raymond coal mill .
employee was air arching on frame crack on haul truck and recieved eye injury by metal splinter . employee was wearing proper ppe for the job .
ee stepped off stairway after descending stair onto uneven floor and the left ankle rolled .
the employee was operating the track bolter and sugar run . as the emp . lowered the drill pot the pot contacted a stored drill stem . the stem flipped upwards and contacted the emp . in the mouth , chipped and broke front tooth .
ee was carrying grate from # 2 cooler and one dropped on right foot . contusion of right foot .
roof fall occurred on the # 6 belt line . fall was approx 5 ft thick 20 ' wide 30 ' long .
ee was climbing down a ladder at gravel plant . ee slipped and fell backwards 3-4ft to the ground . ee was taken to dr to check bruised arm .
employee was carrying a leaf spring for the p135 pick up to the front of the pit in the automotive bay of the shop . employee went to set the leaf spring underneath the p135 pick up when ee felt a pain and burning sensation in left shoulder . leaf spring weighed approximately 50 - 60 lbs .
employee was driving a spad in the rib to hang wire for cables on # 2 unit in # 5 entry when he hit the top causing a piece of top to fall out and hit him in the side of his left foot . this resulted in a hire line fracture of his foot .
during a clinker breaker choke , employee climbed fixed ladder to check load on cooler . when ee stepped down , he stumbled & fell against railing , hyperextending his little finger . was checked by physician-possibly flexor tendon rupture . regular duty initially , expect restricted duty after surgery-2 days restricted prior to surgery , 8 days lost after surgery , rtw w/restrictions .
the ee was climbing down off the clayshed ladderafter a hose had come loose .
ee was assisting in changing a large pump in the wash plant , as he was aligning flange and bolt holes he placed his right little finger into a bolt hole , the flange move and caught his finger causing a laceration to the tip of the finger .
the injured stepped in a hole as he was putting supply cars in a switch and he felt pain in his left knee . he finished his shift . when he returned for his next shift he tried to work but he felt pain in his left knee and went to the hospital to be examined and didn't return to work . an mri was peformed on 7/24 and it was determined that he had a ligament tear in his knee .
ee was installing repaired lift cylinder on a 750 john deere trackhoe he positioned a ladder against the boom of the excavator as the cylinder was lifted up and close enough for him to reach the ladder started to slide along the boom of the excavator he then lost his balance and fell and struck the rear bumper of service trk resulting in pain to left shoulder
a roof fall was discovered while walking the return air couse with inspectors . the fall measured 33 ' x 17 1/2 ' x 5 ' thick . it fell in # 2 entry at xcut 27 in the 1 west return . the roof was wea kened by dripping water . it did not block people , equipment or air .
ee was climbing down a ladder & his foot slipped & he struck his left shoulder & neck against an air duct pipe on the 50 '' mill
was guiding a gear box down the tipple hill . the gear box got lodged on some rocks . when the gear box was unlodged , it came down on his right foot and smashed it . it is bruised up and possible fractured .
ee was stepping thru a man door at 5 west # 2 block belt stopping . ee stepped on a piece of steel cable causing him to slip . felt pain in left knee and right hip .
a roof fall measuring 20 ' l x 20 ' w x 7'h occurred in panel 4 off of panel 1 submains . 2500 ' outby active 005 mmu ( 003 section ) in number 3 entry at spad # 8870. area was bolted with 6 ' tt bolts .
crusher jaw got jammed - we de-energized , performed all log out/tag out procedures and started removing jammed rocks . employee , while removing rocks , smashed finger when ee hit the side while holding the rock , causing laceration that required stitches .
a roof fall was found at 5 am on 1-16-01 at xc 4.5 on main south travel way entry # 2. area was mined in 1982 and was pinned with 6-8 ' full resin pins . additional support of 6 '' steel had been a dded . steel legs had deteriorated causing roof to fail . area measured 10 ' by 10 ' by 4 ' high . this will be cleaned and resupported .
employee struck in lower back with overshot when driller pulled the wireline control instead of rotation control . overshot pulled up to the pulley at top of mast and wireline broke . overshot fell on deck and bounced striking employee in back .
ee was rigging to turn screen right side up & lacerated his left middle index finger
roof fall occur in # 4 entry on # 3 belt 2000 feet from section . area was breakered off and dangered off in all locationa and will not be rehabilated .
employee was picking up tongue on rail truck and pulled muscles in his back . he worked until fri , missed fri and sat .
ee was changing screens on the 4 x 12 shaker . a screen became wedged and while he was attempting to pull it loose , he injured his left wrist and arm .
at approx . 11:50 two miners working near rail loading facility noticed a private car enter fac . and proceeded to travel between our rail and burlington northern main line . car became stuck on the tracks . driver got out of the car and off the tracks just before train struck his car .
the dredge chain was struck and employee and injured was prying on the chain to put it back it back into its track . as ee was prying on it injured was watching it to make sure it was going bac k into its track . the prybar slipped and struck injured on the left eye eyebrow .
ee is a splitter operator at the chilton quarry indoor within the chilton manufacturing facility . ee was assembling boxes . ee put a nail in one section followed with a second nail . the nail gun then jumped and landed on top of ee's left hand . when the gun hit ee's hand , a nail fired into the top of ee's left hand as ee's finger was still on the trigger .
hoistman started at 5:50 a.m. to test # 31 hoist and could only lower hoist . when he tried to reset power it wouldn't reset . msha was called at 6:25 a.m. and told the hoist was down . we didnt h ave anyone underfond at the time . the electricians found a fault in the upper hoist limit switch and repaired it . the hoist was returned to service at 7:05 am same day and msha was called and
ee was repairing dragline . dug three foot hole , while climbing into hole , he slipped and twisted left knee .
ee was working under a haul truck . when he crawled out and tried to stand up he stepped on a rock and twisted his ankle .
ee carried a 5 gal . jug of hydraulic oil up to an overhead conveyor , approx . 1 hour later he felt pain in his left shoulder .
ee was rock dusting around the belt head when material fell from the top into his eye . ee did not miss work or notify employer of accident until 3-12-01 .
the ee was roof bolting in the # 1 entry on mmu . no . 003 section . the ee was using a wrench to beat a insert into another piece of steel while beating the steel he missed and hit his hand resulting in severe swelling .
ee was trying to reposition an i-beam when he got his finger caught between it and another i-beam .
picked up a box weighing approx 120lbs and carried it from the office to the back of service truck . when ee lifted it onto the tail shelf , had a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee was throwing scrap material into a dumpster when he turned around he tripped and fell onto two brake disc . the employee struck his left knee on the brake disc .
ee is section scoop operator . after scooping ribs in a bolted place , he got off scoop to shovel out offset in rib . a piece of rock measuring 1/2 '' thick by 2 ' long fell from offset , hitting ee on the back .
had a rock fall in intersection inby spad # 2 breaks inby 1126 .
installing 400 lb . piece of metal when it caught , came loose while my hand was behind it crushing my finger .
a roof fall occurred at the # 3 return entry of north mains 70'inby ss # 1489 . the fall measured 20'x30'x9 ' . no equipment was involved . the ventilation was not disturbed . no injury occurred and t he fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was driving down ramp when the vehicle hit a bump causing the ee to hit head on the roof of the vehicle , bite down , and break a tooth . tooth number 7 extracted , no other treatment , rtw on 5/5/17 with no limitations .
employee was straightening steel panels on a forklift . the load shifted and smashed his left middle finger reaulting in a laceration requiring sutures .
rock fell in the first right bleeder from outside . the rockfell between the blocks of coal 2 breaks above spad 20. it was about 30 '' thick and 20 ' wide . it didn't block the haulway i travel . it was between the 2 travelways up the bleeder .
the electrician had locked out the breaker to the miner while performing tests . he gave the key to the operator and had him to reenergize the breaker . there was shielding wrapped around the cathead and this caused the catehead to be grounded . when the victim engaged the breaker it exploded . burns to his hand and side of his face .
while standing on the rock shelf in c-13 head box cleaning build up with a long hooked rod , ee felt a pain in lower back .
alleged injury is from dumping muck buckets . accident report was not copmleted until 12-03-02
ee was replacing buckets on the clinker elevator when he knocked bucket loose from chain , lodging bucket between wall and another bucket . when ee tried to dislodge & remove it , bucket dropped and smashed his fingers between buckets requiring sutures .
had power bump lost the power to the 1600 air doors one person could not open the man door due to high pressure agents the door the vr-1 fan did not kick out therefore it took 2 people to open the man door . the main ramp was blocked so msha was notified
ee was building an overcast , laying 6x8x16 in blocks on the upper wall , a beam twisted and caused metal and miner to fall when ee felt he bruised lower left ribs .
a roof fall was discovered on 002 section in ii 2 hdg 2 breaks outby face . the fall was approxiamtely 35 ' x20 ' x9 ' . this fall was bolted with 6 ' tourque tension bolts . this area has been cribb ed off . no one was in the area at the time of the fall .
employee was attempting to get the second drill steel extension into the drill chuck . the drill steel kicked back as he was raising the drill head and hit his wrist . cause of this injury was safety awareness and drill head not adjusted properly . compliance with rules/regs was not a factor , ppe not a factor , miner knowledge could be a factor , mining equipment a factor .
ee claims to have injured his knee when he placed in on a rock while bolting
employee requested medical treatment on 2/21/18 and was prescribed work restrictions by the occupational physician . the employee alleged that ee stepped on a rock , felt two pops in l-knee and felt pain . this is an alleged , non-witnessed questionable event .
while attempting to remove drill steel from chuck , drill steel slipped out striking left eye brow . inateention to activity , awareness are factors .
while exiting loader , employee's foot slipped . while grabbing the loader to stop his fall he felt a pop/twist in his right shoulder . ee did not report incident until 07/24/07 . employee was evaluated at occupational clinic & given restriction of limit above shoulder work . no restrctions effective 07/27/07 .
employee was cleaning out railcar and perlite went into face and into safety glasses into eye .
ee training another employee in the skip pocket when ee was hit in the head with a rock , causing a cervical strain . ee was placed off work pending further testing .
employee alleges he was walking on catwalk , the conveyor stopped and rock had built up in transwer hopper and rocks were released hitting employee's finger .
while changing the slope belt tail roller a steel bar was being used to pull the slack out of the slope belt and allow extra room for changing the tail pulley . the lifting eye attached to one end of the steel bar broke loose and all allowedthe bar to swing around and strike the injured employee in the mouth area , causing a lip laceration and knocking out two teeth .
a wire in the electrical control circuit of the elevator became grounded causing the elevator to stop while asending to the surface . a crew of men were on the elevator for approximately 3 hours . the grounded wire was replaced and the elevator was tested and found to be operating properly .
after completing job of arranging some light fixtures , ee jumped up to try & touch ceiling causing a sprain/strain to his right ankle .
ee was operating a shuttle car when he ran over some coal on the roadway causing him to slide into the coal rib . sprained his lower back .
a fall was discovered in an unbolted intersection last open between # 7 & # 8 entry on # 3 section ~100 ' inby spad # 1946. fall ~19 ' wide x 32 ' long & ranged from 0 '' to 7 - 8 ft thick .
front end loader was being used to separate barge hose from the 10 '' plastic pipe feeding the classifier . the instant it was pulled off , the hose snapped back and hit ee . it bruised the back of his left calf .
ee was lifting the hood on the pc-300 trackhoe in order to check fluids , when he felt a pain in his back . having had back pain from time to time he did not consider it a problem & worked the r emainder of the day .
after bolting a cut , ee stepped onto roof drill of atrs to hang reflectors in the roof bolt plate . the bolter operator dropped the atrs to move the machine . he was caught in a pinch point .
the injured was installing approx . 1 '' thick insulated mat between wet plant attritioner disconnects . he used a utility knife to do the final trim work to fit mat around handrail post . the knif e slipped and cut ee approx 2 '' above his right knee causing a laceration .
roof fall on track entry one brk from spad # 19331. fall was approx 20 ' x 30 ' by 10 ' thick . fall was bolted with 6 ' double lock bolts .
ee stated he was cutting on the deck of the roof bolter and whne he attempted to swing his legs around onto the deck he felt pain in his lower back . ee was taken to the hospital where he was e xamined and treated for muscle strain .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal on inby crosscut 27+3865 ' , 2 west longwall beltline . the fall was approximately 37 feet long , approx . 18 feet wide , and approx . 10 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up .
miner was removing a troughing idler from a conveyor and as the idler was being pulled out from the belt , the idler frame got caught on the miner's lanyard causing him to lose balance . the employee fell approximately 5 feet landing on conveyor and chute work below . 6 stitches to chin some light bruising .
ee was walking near the garbage compdation in unit 4 and got her foot caught in some baling wire and stumbling on felt and pain in her knee .
while removing a dust mask from his face a strap from the mask snapped and coming back and striking ee in the eye . this caused irritation and redness to the effected area
ee was attempting to remove a ripper tip from the d10 dozer . ee was striking the tip with a hammer and a sliver of metal broke off striking ee in the left thigh . ee was taken to the clinic for observation by another ee
north 4 , 64 block , 7 entry , mmu 002 , 4-way intersection 15 ft long x 10 ft wide x 6 ft high , support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , screen fall dangeged off , additional roof support installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
ee was opening a dust collector door and dust went into his eyes .
fall was located in # 2entry on south mains in the return , inby break 14 to 15 1/2 . fall was 120'long x 18 ' wide x 5 ' thick . roof support was 5 ' torque tension bolts . msha inspectors investigated the fall .
while making the required weekly exam , the firboss discovered a roof fall in the return air coures , # 1 entry , 1 bk outby spad # 313. the fall was between the block in the entry to was approx . 3 0 ft long x 17 ft wide x 4 1/2ft thick no equipment were involved .
ee was tugging on the tire on a mechanics truck trying to remove it from the truck . he felt a pain in his lower abdomen/groin area.he is still off work due to hernia .
emp . was working on west tails screen applying silicone on a crack between the poly decks and discharge lip on screen . when he finished he turned around to climb out and twisted his right knee in the process .
the ee stated he was loading supplies on the 410 roof bolter . as he cut the metal band on a bundle of roof bolts , one end of the band struck the ee on the right side of the face aournd the temporal region . this resulted in a laceration that required 2 sutures .
a roof fall was found during the weekly exam on 3 west return , brk . # 62 , in front of the # 2 seal . the fall was approx . 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' thick . this area was bolted with 60 '' high-tech bolts and cribs .
ee was unplugging a clean out hole when his gloves was caught by the chain . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
sprained shoulder lifting and holding pads for a bohringer crusher
an unplanned roof fall occurred on crosscut 69 entry 6 main west 1 beltline . the roof fall measured approximately 30 ' in length , 20 ' in width , and 7 ' of thickness . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8433152 ) , was issued on march 16 , 2011 by msha inspector .
employee stated that while hanging screen in the back , his elbow contacted the screen ( while wearing kevlar sleeves ) causing laceration ~ which required sutures . no restrictions issued - no days lost - full release .
operator of car said he steered car around quikly and hit his brake and hit his head on canopy .
ee was walking around the edge of the feeder and slipped and fall and he went to catch himself with his left hand and arm . he strained his left shoulder . he had surgery on his left shoulder on 7/15/10 and he started missing work on the date .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the coalburg mine on brk inby # 532 at brk . # 31 , on belt # 18. the fall measured approx . 25'long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . no injuries were reported .
while taking apart an air brake chamber to replace a leaking diaphram , the employee was distracted by taking a lunch break . when he returned , he removed a clamp prematurely releasing a spring which hit him on his left forearm . the employee neglected to release the spring pressure before removing the clamp .
pulling stone pins from preheater stone chutes and left elbow pain flaired up from previous repetitive motion illness . employee saw occupational medicine on 5/5/14 received initial medical review . 5/20/14 due to recurring pain employee returned to occupational medicine and received a prescription for an anti-inflammatory , making this an msha reportable incident .
ee was setting timbers when he experienced pain in lower back .
loading material into company trk slipped stepping down from rear bumper turned right foot & ankle
ee and another employee was carrying a sand prop when ee lost his footing and fell , in the event to catch himself he run his left hand across the flat sharp edge of the prop he was carrying . ee suffered a laceration to his left hand in the thumb area requiring 5 stitches .
a roof fall was found off the tailgate entry of the ( 22nd west ) of the 23rd west longwall . the roof fall was approximately 16 feet from the tailgate and was approximately thirty feet in length , twenty feet in width and approximately five feet in height . the roof fall block access off the tailgate .
employee was using come a longs to unload shuttle car tire off mantrip . he was pulling on the come a longs when they got wedged , he was standing in mud . when he pulled , the come a longs broke loose causing him to twist his knee .
a roof fall occurred 2 breaks inby spad 842. the fall measured 10 ' x 18 ' x 40 ' .
utility ee was leaning against a guardrail with his arms stretched along th top rail and his hand hanging over the end . a forklift was exiting the area in reverse and struck the end of the guardrail while making a left turn . the ee's right hand was pinned between the forklift body and guardrail , crushing the index and middle fingers . partial amp of middle finger .
employee had both hands on a 4 lb hammer striking a piece of flatbar in a vice . hammer glanced off of vice and hit finger between hammer handle and flat bar .
employee was standing behind hopper on crusher on log left side . loader operator was building burm on right side of log . a large rock fell out of loader bucket on opposite end of log causing i t to pop up and employee popped up and fell down a 20 ' embankment on his feet .
victim was pulling on cable , and fell . did not report it until 12-17-10 , when his back began to hurt . went to dr. on 12-20-10 , l-5 vertebra out of line . has appt . with physical therapy on 01-03-2011 .
employee stated that he was moving a 55 gal drum of oil , the drum slipped from metal surface , smashing his hand betwene the drum and a metal pole .
alledged incident was to have occurred while this employee was turning the cowl on the shearer . he claims a piece of rock came down and hit on top of the shield bouncing it . cause of this injury was shield was not completely set against the roof . compliance with rules/regs not a factor , protective equip . not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining systems a factor .
while traveling to work in company truck along rt . 153 near penfield the vehicle hydroplaned on substance ( mud/water/oil ) on road resulting in the truck flipping over .
ee was splitting a stone . when the stone split 1/2 fell on his foot causing it to break .
ee was supervising rehabilitation work in the main east returns . he was observing the roof bolter operator install a roof bolt when a loose rock rolled off the rib area , striking injured ee on the left leg & ankle . ee was treated in the hospital for a possible blood clot . he started missing time on 02/06/04 & is still under the dr.'s care at this time . ee should always check area .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the 4 south section # 9 entry at 28 + 94. the fall meas . approx . 60 ' long x 16 ' w x 8'-10 ' high . no injuries or equipment damaged .
ee was installing shuttle car cable anchor when a piece of cap flew off and struck him in the face , leaving a laceration to his upper lip .
member bent over helping electrician work on miner when a piece of drawrock struck him in the back shoving him into the frame of the machine . the rock measured appx . 3 ' x 3 ' and less than 2 '' thick . member did not cease work . on may 29 , 2009 it was learned that he had seen a doctor and diagnosed with a hairline fractures to four ribs . he said he felt fine and refused to be off work .
ee was tightening a bolt when the wrench slipped causing ee's hand to thrust forward . the ee's left hand struck the differential causing a laceration .
while at the reclamation office trailer located in tyrone , new mexico mine the employee attempted to lift a heavy 44 gallon barrel trash bag into the cargo bed ( tailgate ) of a f-150 pick-up truck by herself . employee heard a pop in her right shoulder and was unable to lift her right arm . employee sustained shoulder injury .
stepped off stepladder to ground and went to turn and indoing so , twisted right knee . note : first reported as as `` first aid '' only incident . a visit to dr. on the 22nd requipred fluid to be dra ined . returned to work next scheduled shift .
employee was moving boxes w/paper & supplies several weeks ago . injury was to lower back and was not known to be a work place injury until 6/4/04.first incident was in march , no medical treatment required . recurrance on 5/24/04 medical attention was sought . supervision was not notified of the recurrence and determination made that it was work related until 6/4/04 .
employee was operating machinery walking along side via remote when ee noticed something in ee's eye . eye protection was being worn at the time . employee reported to security for evaluation and was taken to medical clinic for further evaluation . employee had an abrasion on the eye and was treated with medication .
walking up longwall face to tailgate to do onshift examination . when stepping past shield 131 employee tripped and fell . laceration to right hand palm occurred
injured worker was working on 107 pan conveyor and complained of soreness due to bending and twisting on steps while removing guards . reported the next day that he was suspicious of a possibl e hernia . appointment was made to see the doctor . was referred to another doctor .
alleged occuational pneumoconiosis .
ee was splitting a piece of stone and hit his hand with a hammer
while removing the kiln burner pipe using a come-a-long , the anchor point to which the come-a-long was connected failed and broke away causing ee to fall to the floor hitting his head and cutting his ear .
ee felt eye irritation while he was at home , report for his shift on 10-22-02 , seen doctor on last day of shift ( 10-23-02 ) . ee had foreign object in his left eye removed . his next shift will s tart 10-28-02. note : works 4 days on 4 days off .
employee was unloading a dispersant rail car . the omya employee was wearing gloves , when he grabbed the hose to hook to the coupler to the rail car , a wire from the hose came out ( this happened due to the way the hose was cut during replacement from the maintenance department ) and punctured a small hole in his hand ( right hand thumb side ) .
ee was treated for a bilatered hernia from severor coughing while at work state find notified the 50 parts and hir dept . on 8-7-05 .
a roof fall occured in the 3rd west , # 8 entry , 3990 ' station . the fall was appr . 25 ' wide and 8 ' tall . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel or cause injury . fall did cover the fuel car .
ee and another miner were moving a large oxygen bottle into the pit shop when ee stepped on a rock and then felt a pain in his lower back .
employee was in the process of installing a bearing on a new water wipe for the longwall head . another employee was prying up on one side of the shaft with a pry bar so they could install a bearing . the shaft slipped off the pry bar smashing the tip of left middle finger between the 5 '' steel shaft and steel i-beam .
ee was pulling troughing roller off of a pallet on a trailer . as he pulled off a roller , a second roller fell striking ee on left thumb . ee did not want medical attention at time of accident . ee reported discomfort 12-19-00. taken to cayuga medical center , examined and released-no excessive gripping or repetitive movement until 12-25-00 .
had been loading belt structure in scoop walked around end of scoop and hit head on brow hangingdown . ave roof height 5 1/2 ft brow about 5 ft hit sideways spraining neck .
the ee was loading a drive shaft for a roof bolter in the bill of a scoop bucket . the drive shaft was just changed and had oil and grease on it . the drive shaft was in a location where it needed to be lifted in the bucket . when the ee lifted one end , it slipped out of his hands and landed on his left foot . e-ray negative , bruise .
the employee reported to his supervisor that during his activities of operating the slate truck that he had an incident which caused back pain . x-rays taken were negative . the employee has a h istory of degenerative disc disease .
ee inhaled fire extinguisher chemical .
ee was prying on a cat pad . the pry bar slipped and struck his lower lip causing a cut which required stitches .
a mine rescue team found a roof fall while patroling section 4 , while under k order the fall was in the no . 4 entry at spad 13314. the fall was 6 ' to 8 ' in height . it began in by spad 13301 and into the cross toward spad 13313 .
ee was diangnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome on6-26-2002 and informed management on 8-7-02 thatit was work related . began missing work on 10-2-02 .
ee was applying paint at the face for drilling a rock fell from the back & struck hardhat then his forearm . sutures were required to close laceration on forearm
employee was operating dump truck on unlevel terrain , while dumping load , truck began to rock and the truck tipped over . employee failed to position vehicle on level ground . employee injured leg and ribs .
employee was operating a roller during construction of a mine haul road . he drove up an incline to turn around ans as he was backing up lost control of the roller , drove over the edge of the road under construciton and down approximately 150 of steep hillside. , coming to rest upright at the bottom of the slope .
a roof fall occurred in the number 4 portal ( fan ) intake air course entry approximately 18 feet wide , 10 feet high and 60 to 70 feet in length . the cause of the fall was due to the extremely harsh winter weather of late where the roof froze and thawed several . this fall was immediately report to msha via the 800 number .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee on 3/18/2014 .
ee was dismounting water truck . slipped fell and twisted right ankle .
ee had unloaded some brake calipers out of the bucket of the 910 loader . his back started hurting later .
excavator was shutting down at end of shift . excavator was top loading trucks , the operator cut a ramp to walk excavator off the level it had been operating from . while walking down ramp , excavator started bogging in dirt and suddendly stopped , caused cab to tilt over . ee released seat belt , hit forehead on windshield , deep cut . 2 witnesses called foreman ( called 911 ) .
unintentional roof fall in # 1 entry from spad 1998 to 1696. measurement : 35 ' ( l ) x 20 ' ( w ) x 6 ' ( t ) .
preparing to move rb up for next row of bolts . rock fell from between rib and outside bolt , striking right side and falling down onto right ankle , causing injury . taken to er for treatment . x-ray of right ankle positive .
tightening a nut when wrench slipped off of nut . ee lost his footing causing his back to spasm do to a pre-existing condition .
roof fall was found on a normal weekly exam of the box cut intake airways . block 12 @ spad # 3677 `` old # 1 section track entry '' . fall is in an intersection 18 ' wide , 25 ' long , 4 1/2 ' thick . bolted with 4 ' resin bolts - bolts pulled out approx . 6 '' sandstone main roof - slate top fell .
rock dusting , main east , returned , felt pain in lower part of right leg . diagnosed on 9/22/06 . mri report received 9/23/06 .
ee was hanging line curtain using 8 ' step ladder . ladder was placed on gob & when injured started to climb , ladder started to tilt . injured jumped off ladder backwards and hyperextended his kn ee . finished shift & went to e.r . later thursday .
he was working on the radiator of the loader . his wrench slipped while taking radator cap off causing him to lose his balance and he fell approx . 4 ft. when he hit the ground he injured his pelvis .
ee was helping set a jack to hold the tailpiece . the bar slipped bruising his left side . went to dr. on 4-23-01. returned to work on 4-25-01. follow up visit on 4-24-01 .
ee was performing janitorial services and pulled a muscle on the stairway .
a piece of trona approx 400 # fell from the right rib ( top of the arch ) striking the employee on the rt shoulder . he suffered a shoulder separation and was placed on restricted duty .
ee was using a wrench to tighten a bolt that attached a sign to a post . the wrench `` slipped '' , his hand slid down the sharp metal edge of the sign resulting in an incision wound . sutures were r equired to close the wound . ee returned to work his next schudled shift without restrictions .
ee has a hearing loss allording to si work comp . ee laid off due to mine closure occupationa illness .
ee was cutting when top started working . ee turned and fell in a hole , twisting left knee . knee is now swollen and painful . torn medial meniscus .
ee was removing rock from crusher conveyor , caught his finger between conveyor and rail..
employee was working on zink feed pump line installing 3/4 '' bolts using 1 1/8 wrench & socket with breaker bar . while tightening bolts , his wrist popped and fingers on right hand became numb . he was seen by a doctor on 10/7/04 where he was given an injection and an elastic wrist band . he had surgery on 11/29/04 for the right wrist and started missing time .
the wana elevator went down at 10:00 am with no persons on board . the elevator was back in service at 10:47 am . elevator problem with main breaker was the problem .
employee was using a sledge hammer to knock pinsin 994 bucket and felt a pain in his neck and left arm started getting numb .
employee was removing a `` j '' bolt on a screen when the wrench turned and his right middle finger contacted a screen adjacent to the `` j '' bolt . he should have positioned the wrench so the action would have directed his hand away from the screen . result was a 1/2 '' cut to the right middle finger , requiring 3 stitches .
injured had removed a 3 ' section of dcr screw conveyor cover in an attempt un-jam it . to clear material , ee ran the screw in reverse . the employee then walked to the screw to observe progress when right glove was snagged by the end of the screw flight and pulled in causing injury .
ee was on top of loader bucket doing his mid-day greasing of bucket cylinders . a shot was set off ; he turned to see where rocks were going . he lost his balance and fell to the ground , bruising his left knee . he returned to work the same day ( after seeing physician ) and worked the next day , leaving early due to pain . he reported to the er over the weekend for lower back pain .
ee staes opening wheel valve and thumb got caught between valve and stem at two tank area .
award from wv worker's compensation division for 4.015 % noise-induced hearing loss .
ee stated while using a mechanical scaler for 15 years , his wrists became painful . he was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome . this has been also diagnosed as an occupational illness .
employee was using an airlance to remove buildup from a conveyor tailpulley . he inserted the air lance through the pulley guard . it was caught in pulley pulling hand against the guard .
cut 4th finger on right hand while removing rock from tailgate of 10 wheeler dump . received stitches @ benson hospital . was released to return to work
ee reported he was removing an old bearing . ee's partner struck the bearing race with a hammer and a piece of steel flew off and hit ee in the left upper shoulder area . a small piece of steel ( approx . 3/8 '' x 1/8 '' ) was removed by doctor . ee was placed on restricted duties at the time of the removal of the steel .
employee was cleaning the hopper to euminate a buildup of material . there was a steel diversion angle with a sharp edge . employee cut his right forearm .
a roof fall was found 2400 ' outby the mains section near spad # 7719 in the return . the fall was approx . 60 '' thick and 20 ' wide by 30 ' long .
the employee was reaching up to apply a hand brake to a railcar and felt a sharp pain in his shoulder as he tightened the hand brake . note : this injury was not reported to site management until 08/05/2013 .
ee was getting ready to paint the face when a small air blast occured & blew out part of the face . fly rock went about 10ft emp was standing 5-6ft from face & was hit in right arm w/fly roc k which cut his arm requriing stitches
ee tripped/misstepped while walking in quarry he put his hand out to catch himself and broke his wrist .
at approximately 1:38pm lightning struck the volvo 110 loader , # 1443 , on the lift arm or forks . it is believed that the lightning jumped from the forks and struck the ground employee on his right side and exited near his right ankle . the ground employee sustained burn injuries to his upper arm , right side of torso , right leg and foot .
material broke loose , fell from highwall striking employee on his back & injuring his ribs & shoulder . this was a small amount of material consisting of loose dirt & rocks . victim was about 16 ' away from walk when struck . material clump fell around 45 ' above .
part of unit was on 4 man dapco & 14 man unit ride , one man got off unit ride in pit to get a golf cart . 14 man unit ride was in front , golf cart was next and 4 man dapco was last . on # 4 belt supply road , 14 man went thru clear curtain and slowed up for some rock that had fallen out between pins . the golf car went thru clear curtain and slowed up or stopped . the 4 man went thru cle
while installing excavator bucket , pin slipped and the ee twisted his back .
employee was walking through door at c2 and struck his head on the top of the door jamming his neck . employee finished his shift and did not seek medical attention . continued working until 9-23-14 when he was taken off work following an mri - diagnosed bulging disc with nerve damage .
employee was descending ladder from 491 elevatorplatfrom to 492 conveyer screw . employee lost grip and fell approx 3 ft to walkway , resulting in contusion to lower back area and abrasions to left hand . incident occurred 4-25-00 .
knelt down on bolt head on screen deck r knee cap popped out and bruised .
3 west section the height was high & he climbed into shuttle car bed for height so he could reach the roof to hang his s. car anchor . he slipped on metal deck & fell , hit right knee on metal d eck .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 3 entry at 38 cross cut on the mmu 0020. the fall was 0 to 8 ft thick in the intersection .
employee was installing a hoist cylinder on a 2006 volvo dump truck . the hoist cylinder moved and pinched middle finger on right hand . ee's finger had a laceration requiring four sutures .
mechanic was draining hot oil out of diffential housing when the drain cover blew off after the cover bolts were loosen again to complete drain .
ee was washing off a tail pulley when a rock felloff the belt , striking the index finger on his left hand . he was given a shot to numb the finger when the dr pushed the nail back into place . no broken bones or stitches
ee suffered an epileptic seizure that caused him to fall . ee received a laceration to forehead and sustained a fracture to right thumb .
ee was taking water line apart , used a knife to cut duct tape , slipped and cut left .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred on the # 1 section 2nd left plan on chase submains spad 9420. the fall was approximately 60ft x 19ft x 4 1/2ft . there were no injuries reported and no equipment was involved .
injured stated that he felt pain in both knees as he was getting out of unihauler .
ee was operating coal truck on a hill when the truck started backwards . ee lost control and flipped truck onto side .
hoistman reported that limit switch caused hoist to go down . electricians were called to inspect hoist . they found the hoist was out of time due to declutching . hoist was put back in time and returned to service . msha was called at 7:30 am reporting hoist out of service . msha was called at 12:30 pm that hoist had been returned to service at 11:00 am .
ee was tamping the face when a piece of cap coal came down on his left hand .
3 ee let off the tail pulley to make a lace . after making the lace they were trying to tighten the belt with the winch and noticed the brake was set on the winch . 1 ee was holding the handle of the winch with both hands while another ee released the brake and the handle slipped out of ee hand and hit him in left eye .
# 1 entry a void was found . bottom fell into lower winfrede seam 18 ' wide 20 ' long 12 '' deep and app 15 ' long & 5 ' wide & 12 '' high back into solid rib .
the alimak elevator was being tested when a switch in the controller on the bottom landing shortcircuted causing the elevator to stop during travel . the switch was cleaned and the elevator was placed back into service at 4:30 am
a roof fall occured on 8 haulage extension at the # 41 break . the fall is 12 feet wide by 24 feet long by 5.5 thick in the middle tapering down on the edges . the fall was originally bolted with 5 foot install be bolts and was mined in jan. of 2001. no equipment was involved and no one was injured .
ee stepped down 2 feet to lower level at reclaimer and felt a sharp pain in back . ee was taken to clinic and received medications for pain .
torquing rod bearing cap on 155 komatsu dozer with torque wrench set @ 300 ft/lbs . adapter broke & sudden shift of body weight caused cut to middle finger of right hand . writing on failed tool warned torque not to exceed 4500 lb/in . using below formula we were performing work within tolerence of tool .
injured was cutting a peice of steel with a torch and a piece of hot slag fell into his boot .
ee squatted down to lift 3 cardox tubes . he placed them on his shoulder . when ee stood up he felt a pain in groin area .
employee went to close door on maintenance truckand accidently closed the door on his finger . it caused a minor cut , and finger was throbbing . 4 days later it began swelling and he reported th e injury on the 8th .
ee was moving structual steel by hand when two pieces came together and mashed his finger . 4 stitches .
ee was tightening a piece of pipe in the lathe . as he tightend the chuck , he hit the forward lever on the lathe with his left knee , engaging the lathe , and his clothing was caught in the chuck wrench . his left arm was pulled partially around the lathe , causing abrasion and bruising of his left hand , wrist , arm and chest .
the employee tripped while exiting the mantrip fell forward and hit his forehead on the door .
for the past 3 weeks employee has been assigned groundperson job shovelling dirt from below the plant and conveyors . prior mine work was as a loader operator/groundperson . no specific event re ported by employee .
ee was running the roof bolter on 1 west section in # 1 hog lost open break . while installing roof bolt he was lowering drill pot and had his leg under drill port and let drill pot down on his left knee twisted leg a little .
emp . driving to shop to get parts . getting out of truck , got dizzy , couldn't breathe , fell out of truck , couldn't get to his inhaler . was found on ground , ambulance was called , taken to hospital . having asthma attack , because he couldn't get to inhaler , had a panic attack . no injury from fall . asthma attack not work related . document to follow .
ee was working on jaw crusher conveyor belt kneeling by the tail pulley on right knee . the next morning very sore & badly swollen
ee & coworkers were moving a portable platform when one of the wheels rolled off the uneven surface of the floor causing the platform to shift to the side , trapping ee's hand between the platf orm and handrail .
ee was climbing a ladder and heard his right knee pop . his knee began to swell . he was seen by the physician but was able to continue his full work duty . on 8/30/2012 ( his regularly scheduled day off ) he had surgery on his knee and this injury became reportable . his next regularly scheduled shift began on 9/5/2012 , at which time this accident became a lost time injury .
ee was installing a roof bolt and a small piece of draw rock fell and made a small cut on hand .
ee was scooping around the feeder area , when the bucket of his scoop caught the bat wing and as he continued to back up , the bucket dropped down , causing ee to jam his head into the canopy . reportable lost time injury as of 9/30/10 due to surgery .
ee was reporting to his loader . he stepped on a pallet & there was a small rock that was on the pallet & his foot slid on the rock .
injured employee was helping change out a roller on the # 1 kiln . the wind was blowing hard yesterday . ee felt something in right eye , like it was scratched . that afternoon eye became sore , ee seen a speck of something on eye . ee tried to remove it but was unable to . ee reported this to supervisor the following morning .
on 8/7/15 an employee was in the process of connecting an airline for a pump and stepped into liquid lime . he notified the fill-in supervisor and sr. supervisor but refused medical attention . both supervisors advised the employee to rinse off his foot and apply neosporin . on 8/12/15 and was treated for an infection resulting from chemical burns to the right foot .
ee was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome . began missing work on 3/7/00 .
the mechanic was removing a collet from the bucket on 510904 lhd . as the mechanic was tightening the jack bolts to remove the collet , it broke loose and spun in the bore . one of the jack bolts swung around and struck the mechanic on his right index finge.r his superviosr and the maintenance coordinator were contacted and responded to the mine site at 0300 , transported to hospital , 4
an unintentional roof fall was found on 1/1/2018 at approximately 12:40am . the fall was in the # 2 entry inby spad # 1473 and outby spad # 1463. the approximate dimensions of the fall are 20 ' in length x 20 ' in width x 8 ' in thickness .
became msha reportable on oct 15 2003. ee was using a pry bar to move a track rail when he felt pain in his rt . knee . continued working until oct 15 , 2003 .
employee complained of slight pain or discomfort in left wrist , did not know of any work contributing factors at that time . employee was treated at prescott valley primary and urgent care with no confirmed diagnosis .
ee received burn injuries to his arms when he removed a radiator cap on a 777 haul truck without properly relieving the pressure resulting in burn injuries and restricted duties .
ee was helping to clean the shop and picked up one end of an old cutting edge from a loader . he strained his right elbow as he was dragging it across the floor .
employee was loading cable bolts in the ramcar , when one got hung , causing him to lose his footing and slip .
loading anfo into truck one of the other employees stumbled while handing ee a 50lb bag of anfo dropping it down to ee . ee caught it with his left arm aggravating his left shoulder .
ee was sitting eating lunch and was struck by draw rock .
employee picked up a metal portable panalytical table top x-ray machine to move it , when a piece of metal on the underside of the machine sliced his finger , resulting in 4 sutures .
ee was walking and roofed out his head jamming his neck .
ee was inflating a truck , while in the protective tire cage . when somehow the lock ring blew off and came out of the cage and struck him in the face and head .
employee developed chafed skin on both calves due to the friction of pants legs repetitively rubbing against them after becoming wet . it did not involve any equipment or compliance issues . it also did not involve job skills , proficiency , training , ppe or protective devices .
ee was installing liner plates in the secondary crusher when his right hand was struck with a sledge hammer ( not the hammer itself ) thus bruising right hand pinky finger .
ee stated that while welding a crack on a dump body , he received flash burns to both eyes.he is not sure the exacttime of day this happened .
when pounding pin with sledge hammer , ee felt pop , burning and pain in elbow . pain increased over weekend , ee thought this was related to 04/12/12 industrial injury , so he saw dr. mri identified triceps tendon rupture , determined a new injury on 09/26/2012 . lost time , surgical repair required .
while working to install a piece of rail , ee struck a rail clip with a hammer , which glanced off and hit his left index finger .
ee was using a prybar to dislodge chute in crusher feeder .
ee stepped over the feeder wing onto a water hose and felt a pop in her back .
miner was standing on the third rung of a step ladder performing maintenence on a screening plant when miner lost his balance and fell backwards onto his left side in the dirt and mud . miner suffered a concusion , seperated left shoulder , strained neck , strained back and ligament damage to his right knee .
roof fall , measuring approx . 18'w x 40'l x 3-4'h , in number 4 entry of southwest main . this was area of known adverse roof and cribs and jacks had already been used to isolate area . did not in terfere with ventilation or travel and no equipment affected .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 1st left off old # 11 belt 3 blks inby spad # 710 in the old face area . this area was developed on 12-15-06 with approximately 160 ' of cover and the roof is supported with 6'fully grouted resin bolts .
employee has been employed with pg & e operating services company for five years as a equipment operator and has been an equipment operator for 18 years . employee underwent carpal tunnel surger y to his right hand on 1-09-01. an investigationhas been started . this has not been determined work related at this time .
employee was using a rivet buster to break up material behind the maintenece shop for aproximatly 4 hours . next day the employee complained of burning sinsation in his shoulders . the employee went to the med clinic where he was diagnosed with a right shoulder strain . the employee returned to work with work restrictions of no overhead lifting and pt 3 times a week for 2 weeks .
rock fell from top , hit ee on head and back of neck .
the victims ( previous owners ) were on my property attemping to start a retired loader . the engine fired causing the loader to lunge in reverse running over the two victims .
ee states from long term exposure to the loud noise in this work enviroment his hearing ability has been lessened .
employee was driving mantrip when he lost control of mantrip and ran into the north rib . his left knee came in contact with the dashboard , causing a laceration .
while operating scraper , right shoulder started to hurt . on june 12 , 2001 dr diagnosed bursitis and tendonitis in his right shoulder and a mild case in his left shoulder .
ie was backing in a unit fuel tank in a xc with a tractor when ee pinched right pinky in a pinch point where the tractor sections come together . ee backed over a berm causing the rear section to lift up butting against the front section causing a laceration .
employee was fixing a broken conveyor belt clip , he was prying the old one off , when the screwdriver he was using slipped off and punctured his top lip . employee recieved 8 stitches in his lip .
ee was on the packaging b-line , moving the sewing head while the machine was still running . thisresulted in his right pinky being fulled in the belt drive . the fingertip was cut off . he was ta ken to the hospital where he received stitches . the employee was released to return to work .
ee was removing a drill bit on # 75 drill unit when the chain wrench he was using broke . the chain wrench broke swinging out and striking the employee's left knee and left hand . ee received lac eration to the left knee and contusion to the left hand .
ee occasionally helps with bulldozing & claims that the bouncing & jarring from the dozer caused several discs to rupture in his back .
rock fall was discovered int he 3 west return , between # 5 and # 6 entry at the # 40 crosscut . fall was approx . 6 ' to 7 ' thick , 50 ' long and 18 ft wide . fall was discovered on the weekly exam . no plans are made to clean up the fall . the area originally was bolted with 4 ' torque tension bolts .
alleged , employee states he was hosing , turned to his left , felt pain . was seen by on-site emt and returned to work . employee took self off work the following shift , went to personal chiropractor that he has been seeing for non occupational matters .
ee had soreness in right elbow & reported it to his supervisor . the ee was taken to clinic & diagnosed with tennis elbow . elastic band & cold compresses used to control inflammation . ee returned to clinic for follow up on 10/21 , referred to a physical therapist for ultra sound therapy . ee was given his 1st ultra sound treatment on 10/27 .
employee was drilling a hole with a hand drill to anchor a kennedy stopping in coal rib . the auger barrell broke & hit employee on rt . hand .
employee was using a pry bar to pry class b material ( erosion control stone ) loose in a clogged chute . as the employee pulled on the pry bar , it slipped loose striking the employee in the left eyebrow area .
ee was putting up tin sheets when a sheet fell , striking him on the left side of his face . medical treatment injury .
while being tied off onto rail fall protection system , as he stepped across between 2 railcars the supplemental restraint locked and pulled him off balance . he fell slightly backwards between the cars , approximately 3 feet . he alone stepped back onto the railcar and reported incident .
ee was helping plant operator remove belt guard on secondary shaker . while lifting guard out of place , ee's foot slipped on wet surface causing his ankle to roll , spraining his ankle .
ee was working on a foot shaft while the miner was down . he was under the head about 3:00 a.m. when his lower back began to tighten up . he continued to work until it was unbearable around 5 a. m. he left the job without filling out an accident report . after talking to his crew there was no incident leading to this situation .
ee was putting breaker in on pinner - burnt left hand when breaker flashed .
member was operting mantrip , the mantrip jerked . member hit top of canopy of mantrip hurting his neck .
employee was pulling shovel cable from cable reeler , when cable snapped at splice and hit employee knocking ee to ground . employee dislocated right knee and had surgery on 04/21/2017 . ee began losing time on 4/21/17 .
he stepped off of the fender of the volvo , lost his balance and fell .
while roof bolting a piece of rock approximately3 ' diameter 6 '' thick fell out of roof striking ee on left knee . ee continued working until 4/4/01 when this accident now became a lost time acci dent .
walking along belt line , his utility knife hanging on side of his belt with blade open , caught him in the palm causing a laceration requiring 3 stiches . he returned his next shift to work .
employee was struck on the left ribs by a piece of drawrock while installing roof bolts .
ee was operating a forklift and bagging cement product , the next morning , he couldn't lift his left arm . the dr. gave him the next 9 workdays off . invesetigation concluded it was caused by rep etitive motions .
employee was in the process of pre-operational testing an angle grinder . after several attempts working the start switch , ee did not anticipate the initial kick of the tool as it came on . the tool was in the left hand and kicked to the right . the cut off blade on the tool struck the index finger of the right hand . causing a laceration requiring sutures .
ee claims he injured his back due to rough haul roads .
removing a hydraulic pump on ht450 . he reached up to start removing a hose clamp and got some dirt in his face , he brushed the dirt away , continued to work . ee was at lunch , his eyes started to get irritated . i took him down to first aid . it was determined that there was a foreign body in right eye , it was removed by eye doctor .
ee was removing a blockage in the # 2 chute , hand slipped causing the right ring finger to get lacerated , requiring seven stitches ( sutures only ) .
ee was entering the well house at the crusher , and startled a stray dog that was in the well house . the dog bit ee on the right thigh .
employee was stepping down from lower rail of hand rail & felt sharp pain in l knee causing him to fall to grating . sharp pain proceeded along with swelling . this wasn't filed until today because we didn't receive medical information to determine whether this would be recordable until 11/24/08 .
pulling plys off of belt . belt tongs slipped and come-a-long came back & hit left cheek . slippery weather .
ee was working on the miner tracks and a metal bar fell onto his lt. arm .
ee was helping put a hi-line cable through a permanent stopping . a pick hammer was being used to knock a hole in the stopping when a piece of the hammer slivered off and embedded into ee's right eye .
getting out of dump trk to check the oil on his truck , sliped on step of truck fell back toward fuel tank cap then fell to the ground
employee was placing wodden pallet onto loading station at bulk bag station and felt a pain in right side .
a roof fall occurred in a 4 way intersection # 2 and 2 x 3 @ 4 x on south i section . 17 ' wide x 60 ' long x 9 ' high . 2 xcuts outby the loading point . 6 ' fully grouted bolts with 4 - 12 ' cable bolts in the intersection . no persons or equipment damaged or trapped . no ventilation or escapeways were affected .
employee was getting off dozer to use restroom . he slipped and fell onto the push arm striking his left knee .
injuried was walking from office to motor barn slipped on ice and hurt his right shoulder . he did not miss any work until 5/8/14 when he went off for surgery .
a roof fall occurred in the 002 1 east section at 1:50 pm saturday july 9th at the intersection 3 and 50 in # 9 entry . the fall was initially 4 ' high and 40 ' long . it did extend to 60 ' long bef ore the investigation and timbering were completed . it also went higher and water is coming off the fall . the area was bolted with 48 and 42 ' bolts and straps initially .
on 07/25/03 , ee was changing a grinding wheel on an angle grinder that remained plugged into a power source when a co-worker attempting to assist him in changing the grinding wheel inadvertent ly depressed the trigger & started the grinder causing the grinding wheel to come in contact with the ee's finger which resulted in a laceration requiring four ( 4 ) sutures to repair . he was t
this individual was operating a 488 s & s scoop . he had pulled the rubber-tired supply car into a crosscut . the chain was hooked to the bucket of the scoop and frame of the car . he raised up the bucket to get slack in the chain to unhook it . this caused the car to drop and smash his right thumb between supply car and bucket .
ee stated that he was scaling the highwall with a dozer when a large rock broke loose . the rock fell and hit the corner of the dozer blade as he was backing up and out of the way . the caused t he dozer to shake/jar the ee resulting in a mild cervical strain . reportable due to lost work shift on 3-9-01 .
injured worker was waterblasting in the pre-heat tower and strained his right shoulder .
ee noticed that there was something irritating his eye after his shift when he got home . the next morning the problem had not resolved so we took him to the ophthalmologist and it was determined that he had a small particle embedded in his eye which had to be scraped out . he does not know when or how this happened .
worker was walking under a conveyor as it was begining to move . a cobble rolled off the belt and struck worker on the head . he was wearing a hard hat . cobble fell about 4 ' .
while doing his normal job position , employee started having symptoms of lower back pain . after extensive testing the results show he is suffering from the occupational illness of degenerative discs . per 2/5 document 220102230004 , ee was doing walk around his truck , when he slipped and fell on flat ground .
while traveling in # 181 man bus on the east main travelway the bus wrecked at bottom of the hill at cross cut 12. employee had laceration on head and contusion of left hip .
strained right wrist raising bed on gator in shop . ee put on light duty 7-13-04 .
the employee was taking a nut off the head of the crusher when the nut fell hitting ee in the right forearm below the elbow causing a cut requiring 8 stitches .
employee was cutting on a piece of control cable with a utility knife when it slipped off of the cable causing him to cut his wrist . he ceased work and received sutures as medical treament .
ee was using a sledge hammer when he caught his finger between the handle an a cone liner .
received a hearing loss diagnosis for ee on 5/21/2018 . ee last worked on 4/13/2017 and was termed on 10/13/2017 .
on 10/10/2007 the employee was climbing up on dozer at the prep plant . he slipped and strained his right shoulder in the process . he has continued to work until 10/29/07 when he began missing for pain in rt . shoulder and neck area
ee strained back lifting a seal roller from filter cloth
ee was using his foot to hold down a crib tie that was stuck under a swing arm that was being delivered to the mine . another person struck the crib tie with a sledge to dislodge it . when the tie released , the ee lost his balance and fell down . he struck his left elbow as he landed . the distance of the fall was about 3 feet .
ee was removing trash from an office waste basket that seemed to be struck . she yanked the plastic bag , freeing it . then the bag and the contents quickly came up . unable to control this action her left wrist struck the corner of the metal desk chipping the wrist bone .
injured was bending a 6 ' roof bolt . the bolt slipped and ee twisted arm and felt pain in right shoulder .
fall occurred on # 2 unit , mmu 002*0 # 2 entry , crosscut 15. the entry contained a localized horseback . the fall measures approximately 20 feet long , 17 feet wide , and 2.5 to 4 feet thick . the area is supported with 5 ' torque tension rebar b. lts .
the man injured his lower back on 4-3-00 , removing the tail from a joy miner . the man was installing roofbolts on 5-1-2000 when he had muscle spasms of his lower back .
ee was crossing ground floor when he lost his balance and came down on his hands and knees causing small laceration to right middle finger .
ee was cleaning build-up of frozen material from underside of conveyor belt , when it let loose and fell against his leg .
lceration from chain saw on arm .
received a cwp diagnosis for employee from worker's comp .
setting slurry pump on base frame with backhoe & chain . bolt hole was not lined up & ee tried to push in place . pump went past edge & tilted . ee's hand was on edge & was caught between pump & backhoe edge . he had on gloves but did not prevent a cut and fracture .
employee , the scoop man was helping clean up cribbing from a maintenance job . as he was stacking the blocks another worker threw a crib block from 12 feet into the scoop bucket striking ee's right middle two fingers . this caused a fracture to both of the finger tips . ee returned to work on 09-05-2013 on his regular shift with no lost time .
ee was cutting the angle iron and it dropped to the ground . after it fell a piece nicked his shin . he never reported it , because it wasn't a big cut . 2 weeks later a liver of metal got infected in his leg .
ee was putting an axle shaft back in a scraper . the fit was tight and when it finally went in it pinched his hand behind the shaft . having his hand in the wrong place and not wearing gloves co ntrivuted to his injuries . the cut in his hand required 10 stitches .
employee was driving an articulated dump truck with approximately 18 tons of material . as he took the corner at the maintenance shop to go up the hill the load shifted to the right and the dum p body turned over on the right side . the cab went onto 2 wheels then came down . employee received stitches to forehead .
ee was assisting a roof bolting machine move from one heading to another by removing the cable ties that held the cable to the mine roof , allowing the operator to take up cable slack while tramming cable reel first . the cable struck the ee in the feet knocking him to the mine floor . he fell on his back and on top of his self-rescuer causing a simple fracture to the lumbar area .
west 2 , # 16 block , # 6 entry , 4-way , mmu 001 . 25 ft. long x 20 ft. wide x 10 ft. high . support : 6 ft. 3/4 inch resin bolts , roof mats , cable bolts , wire screen . fall will be cleaned up . clean up plan posted .
ee was walking down steps near 33 belt when he stepped on a lump of coal twisting his right ankle .
employee was operating a volvo a35d articulated truck when the truck slid in a tire rut . the operator had right hand on the wheel and left hand on the grab rail . the sudden movement jerked employee's body to the right causing pain in left shoulder .
unintentional fall that occured between the 2 bleeder shafts . the fall measured 13'wx30'lx8'h .
the employee was involed in a battery hauler to battery hauler collision , a miscommunication put two haulers in the same place at the same time . the collision caused the injured employee to sustain neck muscles similar to whiplash .
ee was suing a torque multiplier to tighten a bolt to the blade for the metal shear . the multiplier slipped causing ee's two middle fingers to be caught between the tool handle and work deck .
a roof fall was discovered at spad 69+74 ( no . 1 entry - no . 3 entry ) in the 2nd north panel off the submain east ( all equipment reclaimed prior to discovery of this fall ; area to be sealed ) . the fall was 90 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high . there were no injuries , disruption to ventilation or passage of personnel .
ee boarded rubber tire dozer without incident atstart of shift . during shift experienced pain inarea of right shoulder blades . saw physician on 2-5 was diagnosed with rt . shoulder tendonitis was taken off work on 2-20-03. received chart notes on 3-21-03. lost time restricted work occupational illness
kenworth blast truck was being used to load holes on a shot on the g haul road when driver lost control and rolled down a steep ramp tipping truck up onto its side at the bottom of the ramp . the driver was pinned under the steering column for approximately 2 hours . employee was transferred by helicopter to eastern idaho medical center .
ee was stepping onto a piece of granite grout near a creek when the piece of grout rolled over causing him to fall thus hitting his left arm/elbow area on another piece of granite grout causing a compound fracture to his left arm/elbow . he had two plates and 14 screws implanted in his arm during surgery .
ee turned ankle in yard which caused him to fall . when catching himself with hand he dislocated / fractured two if his fingers . ee was given rx , light duty , and rehab .
ee was injured on 7/27/06 . he returned to work on 8/9/06 on regular duty . he stated that his shoulder started hurting again . on 8/25/06 .
unintentional roof fall no . 8 belt no . 11 crosscut approx 6,00 ft outby 1 right section . fall size : 25 ' x 20 ' x 4 ' . type roof supports : 4 ft conventional 5/8 '' roof bolts . note : fall was breake red off and cleaned up and resupported with 5'torque tensioned bolts .
roof fall was found by m.s.h.a outby survey station 1593 in the primary escape way for the 001 mmu could not see the distance the height of the fall appears to be above the anchorage zone .
received a cwp claim for donald duncan . he was termed due to mine closure on 8/25/2014 .
ee and coworker were changing right rear tire on service truck . tire was mounted and ee was checking the gauge when the sidewall exploded knocking him to the ground .
a fall of material from the roof of the k2 tunnel resulted in damage to the k2 conveyor . no miners were injured in the incident . the incident was called into msha via the 800 number as an immediately reportable accident .
ee was shoveling off a stalled conveyor . while using the shovel to clear off the conveyor , ee said he felt something `` pop '' in his groin area . ee did not notify anyone of the injury . on 9/27/ 03 , ee went to the hospital because of increased pain and obvious physical concerns . he is scheduled for a hernia operation .
while removing a tire coupling from dust pump # 1 in an attempt to keep coupling from falling , another ee and injured ee both had a hold of the coupling . while ee was slipping coupling off of shaft , other ee let go , injured ee did not . coupling fell on his hand and smashed his thumb between coupling and a hammer head .
employee stepped off a roofbolter onto a rock and twisted his left ankle .
ee strained back while carrying electrical equipment .
the incident was heat related.was a hot day and he had been in the sun for about an hour , became disoriented and was assisted to an air conditioned area and rehydrated.he was taken to the hospital where he was examined.he had been drinking several sodas - the sugar and cafeene could have been contributing factors.returned to work .
employee stated that he was moving mantrip when batteries shifted , catching his finger between frame of mantrip and batteries .
ee was drilling a hole with the fletcher bolter to set a roof bolt when a piece of roof coal ( bone ) broke loose from the top , hit the spinning drill steel and a 3 '' square piece of roof coal flew and hit him in the nose , breaking his nose .
on 2/22/12 a roof fall was found during weekly examination of the airways and was reported to msha . the fall was 16 ' long x 5 ' high x 20 ' wide . no interruption in ventilation occurred . no injuries occurred . no equipment was involved . area was cribbed and dangered off .
ee reports he was mixing nordback epoxy for cone liners for approx . 20 min . ee used 8 cans of nordback and was wearing rubber gloves . ee reports that after lunch his hands started to itch . then on the weekend , ee reported his hands swelled and became more irritated . ee reported to his supervisor on monday , 5/2/05 . causation=contact dormatitis . chem .
a roof fall on the # 1 submain ; # 5 entry ; # 22 xcut . the fall was 5 ' to 8'high by 20'wide by 20'long . no injuries or property damage .
a nissan titan extended cab traveling noth 129th east avenue in tulsa ran a stop sign at a `` t '' intersection , ramped a set of boulders and berms and fell into an inactive area of the mining pit .
ee was lifting and pulling a small trailer a short distance on cement in the garage . he then put it down on a stand when he felt pain . he went to a chiropractor . several hours later he was taping paper on a truck cab . then he lifted a one half gallon paint can at which time he felt excruciating pain .
ee positioned a cap wedge between the flight conveyor chain & the drive sprocket on the vessel & then instructed the plant operator to jog it . the chain broke causing the flight to reverse direction and pinch ee's left arm between the flight and the chute . ee was transported to camc for x-rays but they were unable to test due to swelling . ee is currently off work awaiting mri .
ee alleges he didn't remove the snow on the chute and he was climbing up on the chute and he slipped on some ice . he broke a bone in his right ankle .
employee driving haul truck told fellow employee seat was hurting his back but did not report to foreman . fellow employee told forman at end of shift . a new seat was put in haul truck . when employee returned to work on 7/12 he told foreman his back was hurting due to the seat in haul truck . employee was taken for medical exam .
employee was carrying bolts to the longwall face for the pan line bolter . when they set the bolts down onto the tray , they sliced their forearm on a bolt plate that was laying in the tray , causing a laceration .
the safety department informed me , on 3/21/07 , that ee was walking in the # 4 entry on sliding hill mains , when he stepped into a section of uneven groung and twisted his left knee .
while lowering the drill steel . the steel came out of the chuck and struck the individual on the end of the left thumb . the individual was seen at the hopital and diagnosed with a fracture to the left thumb .
the victim was operating diesel tractor pulling a water trailer . he drove to the surface area and parked the trailer . he then pulled away from the trailer and ran into a longwall shield which was stored on the surface area of the mine .
3 east mains # 6 entry at ss 21139. ee was assisting to saw a crib block , when a piece of roof fell out of overcast area 13 ft high and hit him on the neck resulting in lacerations requiring st itches .
on 3/22/05 ee reported to his supervisor that on 3/14/05 while he was rolling a conveyor belt at the sand plant , his back started hurting . then he lifted a tool box out of a company pickup truck hurting his back more . again , on 3/21/04 he was pulling cables to hook up to the dredge , hurting his back more .
ee was using a 36 '' pry bar to lift a slab of sandstone when the bar slipped out from under the stone causing the stone to fall on his right hand resulting in a contusion to his right ring finger . ee will be performing lite duty work until next dr appt on 7/17/06 .
a roof fall occurred in the # 5 entry ( neutral airway ) in the intersection one break inby spad 3063 measured 18'long , 18'wide , 6 ' thick . soft shale with water-bolted with 42 '' resin & 6 ' pont anchor bolts 850'outby face
ee was burning metal . after cutting through the piece , 1/2 of it slipped from table falling to floor . as it fell it pulled the hoses of the welding torch causing torch to fall . ee grabbed at t orch , bumping the oxygen valve opening it up . this caused an increased flame . the nozzle of the torch was pointed @ lt arm causing burn . went to er , given meds & antibiotics , returned to work
ee was at the finish mills catwalk . he stepped over the head pulley cover and stepped on the hose which caused him to twist his ankle .
while drilling a water well , the injured floor hand was making a drillpipe connection . the injured employee did not wait for the other floor hand to get tongs completely around the pipe , he put his hand in a pinch point , the tongs were then latched . injured employee had the tip of his left ring finger amputated .
the employee was on the surface of a clean dry barge in daylight hours with no movement and light wind . the ee passed through the # 2 port hatch opening and made contact with the empty hopper floor . cause is unknown . ee was installing a dust prevention tarp across the port hatch opening before the incident . the operator contests msha jurisdiction .
unintentional roof fall approx . 3-4 ' high x 40 ' long x 18-20 ' in width was discovered at approx . 2:30 am on 9-24-01 while inspecting main intake escapeway . spad 2064-no . 7 main in take escapew ay .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the new era mine at the 2e longwall beltline between crosscut 10 and 11 , entry # 1 1525 east to 1675 east . the fall was approximately 30 feet long , approximately 18 feet wide and approximately 6 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 23k
ee was working in the finish mill removing liner plates and he experienced back pain in the process .
equipment operator with 3 weeks experience as a re-hire and 2 years experience previously with rgi , injured employee's ribs on employee's left side when employee fell approximately 4-5 feet on a rock . employee was attempting to ascend a track mounted volvo excavator .
while cleaning ee backed into grating and struck right forearm and rib area .
employee was putting scoria down on the roads with a scraper and hit a rough spot in the road . she was seen at the hospital and diagnosed with a back strain . she continued to work her full dut ies , but her back continued to cause her pain . on 8-1-01 she went back to specialist and was told to stay off equipment if her back was to heal . she became a lost-time as of 8-02-01 .
employee stated that while setting shields on the 14 left longwall face at 100 shield a piece of rock fell from the top and struck his left ankle .
the miner operator attempted to get the cable out of the roadway . a piece of rock rolled out of the rib striking him on the foot . he visited the er and was found to be bruised . he was given a full release to return to work and did so . on 12/16/11 he visited specialist . dr determined he had a hairline fracture in one of the metatarsal bones in his foot . he began missing work .
roof fall in the 4 west section # 6 entry 10 rm the fall measuring 20ft long , 24ft wide , & 6ft high . this area had been bolted with 3 ft resin bolts
a co-worker was running from being sprayed by water from the water truck and accidently ran into employee , knocking him down .
employee was walking down face and bumped head aginast canopy of shield . ee has had prior neck surgery ee started missing 4-4-04
ee was hauling from the pit to the jaw crushed . when the loader operator loaded ee's truck a larger rock rolled into the back of truck hitting the side of the bed and jarring the truck , thus causing ee to have some lower back pain . ee was taken to be evaluated and is being treated for a pinched nerve . dr. prescribed a steroid and physical therapy .
the injured person was on top of his trailer placing the tarp on the load and attached to a safety harness , he noticed that hook started moving inadvertantly , he pulled and trying to step down the trailer he fell to the ground .
ee was operating a joy shuttle car . when he hit a hole in the haul road he jammed his head and shoulder into the canopy .
ee was pushing a filled # 50 bag of material onto a conveyor when he felt pain in his right shoulder . ee declined medical attention at the time of the incident . ee came back to work after time off on regular shift change and reported shoulder pain . medical appt was made for employee for 11/29/2011 . ee was put on light duty on 12/02/2011 following a return doctor visit
ee stated that he stepped off of the cage and slipped . when he did he threw his hands out to catch himself his left hand was holding his dinner bucket and water jug . when he contacted the ground he injured his left thumb .
a roof fall measuring 20 ' l x 30 ' w x 9'h occurred in the in the # 4 entry in the 10th rt . panel at spad # 5490 on 7c belt . area was bolted with 5 ' tt bolts .
ee got off of truck to start drill , took a couple of steps and stepped akwardly on a rock and twisted knee .
ee injured his right shoulder while shoveling in silo . he didn't seek medical attention and begin losing time until 5 may 2010 .
employee stated when ee was exiting the skid steer ee tripped over a bar on the plate of the skid steer falling on right hand - originally first aid - did not go to doctor until 08-29-2018
ee was operating a roof bolter . he was drilling a hole in the mine roof and had his left hand on the drill pot . a piece of draw rock fell , stiking the left hand , and breaking the middle finger .
ee was changing the tail pulley on the scalper belt . as he aligned the parts the tail pulley slipped and crushed his hand . there were no broken bones but the laceration required 8 stitches .
ee had been scaling from a pettibone basket . the basket had been lowered by the pettibone operator to move to another location . ee that was injured had his left hand on top rail of basket fram work ( about waist high ) . pettibone operator was intending to move pettibone in reverse . operator placed control in forward inadvertently . the basket hit against a pillar , pushing the basket r
no actual accident occurred . possible `` wear and tear '' of job could be cause of tear of tendon in employee's shoulder . emp . reported that shoulder has been hurting for 1-2 yrs . no injury , went to company dr. on 4/8/08 , placed on restricted duty .
ee was unplugging a jaw . a rock fell and smashed his right third finger .
ee bumped head on concrete ceiling while attempting to change valve direction .
getting out of crew vehicle at end of shift w/ lunchbox in hand when she tripped & fell to concrete hitting her right knee .
a roof fall occurred and initially fell from the no . 1 entry over to the intersection of the no . 2 entry . later the roof fell from the no . 2 entry over to & including the intersection of the n o . 3 entry and from the last open xcut of the no . 1 entry down the entry approx . 40 ' . the fall measured approx . 170 ' long by 18-20 ' wide by 5 ' thick . roof in the area consisted of laminated b
employee stated ee was installing roof bolts on the no . 2 section in the no . 5 entry . ee drilled the hole , inserted the glue and was placing the bolt head into the wrench . ee's left hand was pinched between the bolt/wrench , and the rotation was engaged . this resulted in the amputation of the tip of the left pinky finger , and dislocation and laceration of the left ring finger .
ee had been off from work with illness . he came to office and reported back injury . he had been under his personal doctors care/ this injury/illness did not result from an accident .
employee was checking the batteries on a small mantrip . when he lifted the lid he felt a sharp pain in his right shoulder . this caused the employee to drop the lid down quickly .
while drilling a 10 ' hole in # 4 entry , employee was inserting a 4 ' middle piece of steel . he manuevered the pot over to make room for the steel.the pot moved farther than anticipated and pinch ed his left index finger between the canopy and the drill steel .
ee had helped mechanic find and repair an air leak that was allowing dust into the duct work and cab area . ee removed louver from duct and was cleaning duct work when finger got into fan blade .
while doing overhead work , installing exhaust system a piece of the system fell down , striking ee in the face causing a gash on the right cheek and nose area
employee reported on august 10 , 2015 to his supervisor that he hurt his back while driving the endloader the last week of july , 2015. employee believes he twisted his back while pushing up product being unloaded from the barges onto the stockpile . it started out as an achy joint , but has gotten worse . employee did not communicate this to anyone before august 10 , 2015 .
ee filed an `` alleged '' occupational pneumonocosis claim on 3/15/07 , received claim 2007007966 notice on 4/2/07 . he received a 10 % award for claim 93-67716 filed on 6/18/93 .
ee was picking up a 50 # bag of sand when he felt a sharp pain in his right groin area . he is on modified duty with a groin strain .
ee was lifting a 12 '' pvc weight about 20 lbs . ee grabbed it with both hands rapidly lifting it , striking the i-beam above his head . ee was taking by truck to seek medical treatment . ee was giving stitches and x-ray of his left ring finger . x-ray showed brake in lower finger next to joint and nail , ee was released wit no restrictions .
upon investigation it was determined that this was not a reportable roof fall . rock material dislodged from the roof along the travelway creating an area of unsupported top of approximately 30 feet . the dislodged material was not above the anchorage point of the initial support . the area was cleaned and additional bolts were added before the weekly was due .
man was helping with repairs to cone crusher andhe just did not watch what he was doing and stepped backwards from the side of the crusher and stepped right off the main frame of the crusher a nd fell off to the concrete pad under the crusher . he fell 6 1/2 feet .
while ee was tramming the bolter , a rock fell out from between the bolts striking ee on the right hand and arm .
an electrical power failure occured affecting the deskins b shaft hoist
miner was walking down provided stairs and using handrails in railcar preparation area and upon stepping off of last step to the ground rolled right ankle . miner fell to the ground and continued work for several more minutes and then reported injury .
a roof fall was discovered on 2-26-01 in the a-2 mains return at 37 block in no . 2 entry intersection & crosscut 1 break inby the survey station no . 321. the fall was approx 17 ft wide x 70 ft long x 8 ft high . contained 6 ft. resin bolts & timbers . the area was developed 1-98. the fall has been dangered off and will be cleaned up .
employee claims he was injured handling rails . on 5/29/03 , additional days lost for previous injury ( 7000-1 ) dated 12/30/01 , was submitted to msha . a violation ( # 7107886 ) dated 6/12/03 was iss ued requiring these additional days lost to be reported as a new accident . this 7000-1 is now submitted to terminate the violation . ( co investigation determined this to be a continuation of e
employee was installing a ram jack pin on a shield . the employee slipped on a piece of slate , lost his balance . the ramjack fell on the employee's right index finger .
a roof fall was identified by a fireboss on the old 1st rt . section at break 193 near spad # 999. the fall was approx . 18'w x 250'l x 8'-10'h . the area was mined approx . 3/21/12 and was supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts . the area will not be cleaned up and the area has been dangered off and timbers set .
ee was working outside using a 20lb sledge hammer to loosen material that was stuck inside the chute . ee went in to cool off . about 10 minutes after ee tried calling to get ahold of someone because ee stated was cramping up and skin was hot clammy and ee was shivering .
the ground man was attempting to dislodge rock with a 5 ' pry bar . when the rock disloged , employee was unable to stop momentum of the bar and struck his left hand pinky finger . employee was taken to emergency room for x-ray , which revealed a small-angulated fracture on the little finger of his left hand . employee returned to work without restrictions .
the ee was working on throttle linkage inside cab of d8l dozer . removed floor cover to access linkage and standing down inside opening . left foot slipped causing ankle to twist . ee put on miner restrictions & given otc ibuprofen & ice . also give crutches if needed .
employee was removing heavy part ( u joint ) from under loader . once removed , it slipped from employees hand and fell to the ground pinching their finger between the part and the floor .
ee was operating a john deere 40 ton artic truck . while dumping a load of rock , a large rock flipped back and hit truck . this caused the employee to be jarred .
while riding to section brakes failed causing mantrip to strike rib .
ee fell while exiting the 482 scoop , falling on his left side bruising his hip , ribs , and leg .
as employee was working a rock fell from betweenpins striking his neck & left shoulder .
ee stated he was hanging curtain in the mine when he slipped and twisted his knee . ee continued to work until 8-6-04 when he condsulted a dr .
a roof fall occurred in the 2 west 4 mains @ 39 crosscut , between # 4 and # 5 entries . the fall measures approximately 20 feet long , 18 feet wide and 5 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 foot fully grouted tension rebar bolts .
while using his feet to push a tire , ee hurt his lower back . he began missing work 10/2/08 from an injury that occurred on 6/25/08 that was diagnosed as degenerative disc disease .
ee was in storage trailer to get a box of cleaning towels , when getting down from storage trailer he jumped down and turned right ankle .
while pulling the recovery walker shields forward , a roof/face fall occurred on the b-7 longwall recovery room .
on may 19 , employee reported ever increasing pain in his left lower back and hip , which he attributes to years of repetitive motion working with heavy tools , standing on concrete and working in awkward positions in his job as a mechanic . on may 30 he began physical theropy to help alleviate the pain .
ee stated that while pulling top structure from between belts on 1214 belt , he felt a pop in his chest .
employee was helping the scoopman rock dust & a piece of rock fell & hit him on the head .
victim was lifting a screen and handing it to another ee when he pulled a muscle in his shoulder causing a strained shoulder .
while exiting a vehicle , the employee pushed thedoor closed with his right hand while moving away from the vehicle . his had was positioned such that it gripped around the edge of the door . as the door closed , the tip of his glove became pinched between the door and the door jam , preventing him from removing his entire hand . his middlefinger remained in the pinch point of the door .
ee received flash burns to his eyes while working in proximity to welding operation . ee did not notice until after getting home . ee recieved treatment on 9/11/2009 . ee returned to normal duty on next scheduled shift .
employee's back became stiff and sore following working all shift hanging huesker mesh on the longwall recovery face .
a maintenance ee was taking a driveline out of a 789 cat haul truck . the ee stepped from the center cross frame member to one of the brake cans with his right foot . the ee then stepped onto th e transmission having with his left foot . the eeleft foot slipped from the transmission housing twisting the left knee .
ee was working on the hood latch of a lube truckat one point ee stated he turned and felt a catch in his knee . ee had continued to work , but because of recurring catching in the knee , went to see a dr. in may . an mri taken on may 19 showed a slight cartiledge tear . ee continued to work until may 28,2003 when he went in for surgery . also previous knee surgery .
ee was working with machinery ( jack - leg ) was pulling on a 8 ft. steel that was stuck in a underground hole a part of the steel broke off ee and another co-worker fell back and jack hammer landed on his ( l ) knee .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 4 entry , left return of old 3 belt . fall measured 80 ft long , 19 ft wide and 8 1/2 ft high . this area is worked out . no equipment was involved , no personal injuries reported . ventilation & travelways were not affected . all approaches have been breakered off .
ee was observing another ee work , he bent down to check the progress of the ee and when he tried to stand up , he couldn't . was put on light duty until 4/21/03 then was taken off work . this was first day of lost time .
ee stated , while attempting to take a measurement to replace a section of pipe , injured placed his hand on the pipe causing the pipe to fall striking the ee in the back and rt ankle . ( this will be a lost time )
ee was using a 12 # sledge hammer as a backing plate while another ee was striking a pin into the pan feeder drive chain . a small shard of metal splintered off the pin and struck ee in the chin requiring stitches and removal of the 1/4 '' metal chip .
this driver was attaching the funnel tube to thedischarge boom for loading . the funnel tube felland jerked his arm .
ee climbed railing of steps . lost grip of railing and slipped and fell . heavy dew on ground that day .
ee slipped and twisted right ankle when getting out of truck .
ee was taking a bolt out of saddle on the boom . he was using a ratchet wrench . he was trying to break a bolt loose . while pulling on ratchet the bolt broke loose causing the ee to lose balance , his arm struck a piece of steel , which caused a laceration .
on 05/03/2017 ie reported that ee had been treated for a sore shoulder from ee's personal physician since february and that ee now thought it may be work related . ie received restrictions on 05/03 . on 05/10/2017 ie received results of mri showing a degenerative condition which could be a result of overuse . ie could not determine any single event which caused injury .
ee was pulling 21 ' drill steel by hand , strained low left back .
ee reported pain in middle back after operating a bulldozer to rip and push a layer of rock . referred to physician who prescribed physical therapy for treatment . no work restrictions or lost workdays occurred as a result of this injury .
while picking up a part in the warehouse , ee was transporting the part on a hand truck . the part came off the hand truck , ee placed the part back on the hand truck pinching his left middle fin ger between the part and the hand truck . note : ee did not see a doctor until 10-4-03. he was treated & released w/back to work slip . ee informed progress of the nature `` broken bone '' until 10-
ee was hanging bolter cable in the # 5 entry when his knee went out .
ee picked up a sledge hammer and turned at the same time . he felt pain in his lower back .
on 7/23/16 a miner reported a possible fire on a 2 yard loader at 44w 14300 mining block . the mine was evacuated & it was called into msha . working w/msha local field office , mine rescue teams entered the area & found no fire had occurred . an investigation team found the source to be coolant leaking on the exhaust & therefore this was not an immediately reportable incident .
a roof fall zero to 8-feet thick occurred on the off walkway side of the stageloader approx 30-feet in length . 8-foot resin roof bolts 1 to 2 in each row failed at the anchorage zone in # 3 entry b-8 headgate inby crosscut 16 .
ee was cleaning the b-3 beltline when he struck his hand against the belt structure resulting in a laceration . ee was sent to a hand clinic on 06/06/02 where 6 were applied .
company was notified that ee was granted an award of 6.7 % for permanent impairment resulting from noise-induced hearing loss .
the miner was installing wire . he had propped the wire to hold it while he prepared to drive another bolt , he started the bolt in the hole by hand , he bent down to get the driver . the prop sli pped . as the wire dropped it popped the bolt from the hole . the bolt fell striking the miner causing the cut to the miners eyebrow .
injured and another employee were carrying 48 '' troughing idler up an outside conveyor belt , in order to replace an idler . injured experienced lower back pain . **may 28 , 2010 was his first day off work . **
employee pulling on conveyor belt , mis-stepped and made knee sore . knee has been x-rayed with no damage done . will get an mri next .
ee was working with hand railing , when wasps came out of railing . ee was stung on both forearms . later in evening , ee's arms started to swell and the next morning the ee was taken to the clinic & given a steroid shot for the swelling . ee did not miss any time & released by doctor after follow up visit for observational purpose on 8/20/08 .
a roof fall was found by pre-shift ecaminer on 1/28/07 cross cut 68-69 entry 6 , 6ims . fall was in 4-way intersection that had been mined december 2005 and supported with 5 and 6 foot resin bolts . no injury or property damage resulted . there are no plans to clean up fall .
as ee was getting ready to put in the pin hole , he stepped on a rock and jarred his lower back . began missing work 6/11/01 .
ee was doing plant maintenance when he discovered he had an acetylene leak on torch . he inhaled the acetylene .
two miners were on top of the miracle run elevator ( 30 ' from top ) chipping ice off shaft wall , that was found in the previous inspection . a piece of ice fell and tripped the limit switch on shaft bottom causing an entrapment for approx . 85 minutes . no problems with training , ppe , mining machines or compliance issues .
operator was working on fuel filter on dozer . stepped back and fell hitting left knee , was transported to summersville regional hospital by ambulance , referred to a specialist for ongoing treatment
ee was diagnosed with left carpal tunnel syndrome that is work related . on november 20 , 2017 buzzi unicem usa concluded that ee's diagnosis is a new claim , not something that was caused by a previous injury .
person was getting up onto bolter from the head end of bolter . he had to step up 15 '' from the ground onto bolter platform , when he stepped up he heard a pop in his right leg below the knee . th e area swolled up and was painful . went to hosp and x ray showed stress fracture to leg .
ee was building super cribs in intake . he was lifting an 8 ' timber up to another ee when he dropped it . timber struck his left knee as it fell .
empl failed annual audiogram test . audiologist eval 4/8/08 . audiologist required mri 4/10/08 & reval end of may . not recommend for hearing aid . eval to factor was age , genetics vs environmental reason for loss of hearing . no loss time or restricted duty .
hot product from kiln # 5 moving from the cooler bed , caused the 89-801 conveyor belt to catch on fire . the fire lasted for approx . 45-60 minutes and was extinguished by the volunteer fire dept . ee was taken to the hospital becaused of smoke inhalation , was treated and released .
in pump room of dredge taking bell housing off of the pto . the housing was stuck on the shaft so they used a portapower to remove it . the housing suddenly shot off of the shaft about 8 '' striking the employees right hand .
claimant and ee went to get hose from water truck . pulling the water hose claimant felt a `` pop '' in his back .
ee was picking the mantrip back onto the track when his right middle finger got mashed between the jack bar and mantrip . he returned to work on june 2 , 2004 due to his 6/3 work schedule . no scheduled days were missed .
ee was driving service vehicle and a piece of rock fell hitting his shoulder and causing a bruise .
injured was operating roof bolting machine alongwith another employee . upon entering the area , they found the ribs to be in good condition . after installing 3 rows of bolts , they advanced to install the fourth . injured had positioned the machine & drilled the bolt hole when a section of rock & coal fell from the rib pinning his legagainst the machine and fracturing his ankle .
ee stated that while pulling a hydraulic hose he fell & felt a pain in his back
ee was holding the carousel jack in place during installation . the head of the jack retracted , smashing his left thumb . chipped bone & ten stitches .
while changing out screens ee lifted the one end of the screen and then turned the screen so he could hook the end of the screen to the boom truck hook to raise it out and in . he twisted his r ight knee . note : he did not see a physician for this until 7/26/01 .
the roof in # 2 entry between # 27 and # 28 x-cut fell for approx . 28 feet long 6 ft to 9 ft high and 14 ft wide . the roof was fully bolted and screened . loose and fractured roof contributed to the unexpected fall . the location is in the 5th left longwall bleeder return was found on weekly examination of the area .
a fully trained miner was tramming the roof bolter from 0 to 1 entry . the machine made contact with the rib line and a piece of metal on the canopy struck ee in the right ear causing a laceration . the injury was not result of any compliance issues nor did it involve any protective devices .
employee was hoisting a tool bucket with a winch line and put his right hand into a pinchpoint between the pulley and the clamp on the wire rope . transported to the medical center and stitches were used to close the wound . he was released for work with no restrictions .
on 01/18/10 ee's wife reported that the ee had injured himself while operating his dozer on 01/14/10 and not reported the injury . now on 01/18/10 he was in pain and needed to go to the dr. this accident is under investigation because it was not reported before leaving mine property and pending results of the investigation , this accident report may be requested to be withdrawn .
he was putting up roof bolt & a rock ~1 '' thick x36 '' x 24 '' fell on legs after he fell back out ofthe way . rock landed on both legs bruising them below knees .
on 10/26/11 a lab tech was found in the lab storage room crying . he said he had chest pain & shortness of breath . emt's on scene at 2:05 pm . ee is overweight , has high blood pressure and diabetes , heart attack was suspected . at 3:15 ee arrived at the hospital and was stable and responsive . on 10/27/11 ee called and said he was ok .
employee was cleaning the hammermill when a co-worker stepped on the bearing causing one of the hammers to fall on the top of his left hand . employee had a small abrasion on the top of his left hand causing tenderness to the top of his hand , two fingers , wrist and upper forearm .
ee was moving roof bolter from # 2 left entry to # 3 heading . he placed his hand on drill pot and by mistake , hit the fast feed up lever on the controls . the drill pot raised pinching his rt ind ex finger between the drill pot and operatore canopy .
employee twisted his left knee as he was going into the mcc room located at the end of the # 10 belt . employee did not start missing time from this injury until 04/09/2012 .
ee was on top of sand silo doing electrical work . he slipped , grabbed a bar above his head , trying not to fall , injured right shoulder .
ee was helping move rock along conveyor ; rock fell on his hand and cut pinky finger of left hand .
ee stepped on bumper of truck to reach portable torch . bumper was covered with snow and ice and ee slipped and fell to the ground , causing strain to his back & right leg . he did not seek treatment until 3/19/04 .
at 6:31 am an explosion occured behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . msha , state and company investigation has been initiated but results not yet available .
when freeing a stuck drill steel , the ee chipped a front tooth .
member was in process of moving up flypads . he went to get his hammer off continuous miner . a piece of rib rolled out hitting him in his back causing him to stumble and strike his forehead .
while working on the crusher ee fell and struck the side of the crusher . he was wearing a self-retracting fall protection harness but he swung into the side of the crusher resulting in injuries to his face and left arm . he received stitches for his injuries .
he was making his pre-shift on 980f endloader and he slipped and fell causing injury to his right knee and ankle ( strain ) .
employee was attempting to lift the boiler gun off the tool room table and in the process of doing so began coughing very hard and felt a strain in his abdominal area . he noticed a bulge and attempted to push it back in . ee was taken for examination and diagnosed with a hernia . ee was given modified duty until surgery can be scheduled . ee called off the next day due to pain
knee popped out of place while working in the finish room . ee was knealing down and when he stood up his knee popped .
ee was lighting a lp burner that is installed thru the bottom of a screen deck ( for drying mud caked on the screens ) . the torch failed to light , so the ee went to get a new striker , believing he was allowing enough time for gas to dissipateh . the mud buildup on the screens did not allow for the gas to dissipate , and upon returning and attempting to light the torch , the buildup of g
ee was observing the mining machine while cutting coal , when a piece of rock fell from the roof & struck him on the head & shoulder causing a laceration by his right eye required 6 sutures .
mantrip caught on fire and burned for about 40 minutes . mantrip sustained damage to engine / drive train components . cause of fire is not known .
unintentional roof fall # 48 xcut main east between # 6 and # 7 entry . 12'long x 14 ' wide x 4 ' high . bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts . called recorder . didn't fall above anchorage , should not have been called in . marked out and propped off area .
ee was cleaning out from under palletizer at plant 5. ee raised up and hit hard hat on steel framing of machine . reported to supervisor on 3/24 , requested medical treatment at that time . strain to neck .
an ignition occurred at 65+74 on the f-19 longwall face at # 92 shield . the ignition was instantaneous with no timeable duration . it was self extinguished by the shearer water sprays . there were no injuries to personnel or damage to any equipment . there was a visible sandstone channel ranging from 1 '' to 6 '' from 90 to 135 shield .
ee was operating a diesel tractor dragging roadways when a piece of rock fell from between pattern bolts striking him in the left knee . he continued to work until a medical evaluation on 4/27/06 revealed the need for orthascopic knee surgery . this accident became reportable on 4/27/06 .
while removing muffler from dragline engine , ee slipped and strained left knee . on follow-up visit 4/12 to dr.'s office the diagnosis for surgewry was made and scheduled for 4-13-01 .
employee was exiting cab of locomotive and while stepping out on the two steps that stepped down to the cat walk he did not get solid contact with the 2nd step and twisted his leg . he grabbed the rail and stopped his fall but his leg hit the catwalk with alot of force ... breaking the bone below the knee in 2 places .
ee swinging 16 pound doublejack . finger pinched between handle of doublejack and object he was striking at .
removing trash from supply car , a box had metal banding material hanging from it . when he picked it up to throw into dumpster , the banding struck his nose causing a laceration that required sutures to close . after treatment he returned to work with no restrictions .
witness was driving 007 tom car out of the work area and employee was the passenger . he encountered some dust by drive section of 150 and continued to drive thru it but missjudged the turn off and hit a piller block . employee hit his right knee on the front frame of the passenger seat , causing a laceration to his knee . required stitches , no lost time , no restrictions .
ee was removing roller from dozer . he attempted to pull roller off machine . one end of roller slipped and pinned his hand . the ee s finger was caught between roller and rock on the ground . the ee s finger got broke as a result . ee finished job , then he realized the finger was broke .
was turning with shovel in hand when felt pain in rt side
ee was pressure washing backhoe tracks off to send backhoe in for repairs . wash sprayed gravel back into his mouth . he bit down on gravel and broke/cracked his tooth on the bottom left side of his mouth .
employee was lifting a vfp box for a miner , up to put on a supply car and felt pain in his back .
while installing the bolts that connect the top shell to the bottom shell of the crusher , ee was holding the head of the bolt from the bottom & using 2 fingers to support the center of the bolt . another associate began to tighten the nut , the bolt spun , grabbing ee's fingers and spinning them across the steel plate deck . the steel deck sliced the middle finger .
while exiting crane ee was stepping onto a catwall , and fell approx . 6 ' to the ground .
mob . mech . was replacing alternator on d-10 tractor . access is through a hole in floorboard of cab . he was reaching through the hole to install alternator when he felt pain in his l shoulder . he completed job & contacted foreman re : incident . he was seen by co. dr. on 9/24 & referred for ortho consult . he saw ortho dr. on 9/30 & was prescribed pt & given a 20 lb . lifting rest .
ee was wire brushing a mantle for 48fc telsmith in preparation of assembly . small piece of wire from the brush went up under his safety glasses .
roof fall old room set up in # 4 entry one crosscut outby spad # 415. roof fall for about 10 ' long and fell out from nothing to about 5 or 6 ' high . the area was double rowed posted and dangered off all access .
ee was shooting a klinker out of the # 2 rotary kiln , he was using an 8 gauge winchester ring blaster . when he fired a shell into the rotary kiln , something ricocheted back at him , a piece of metallic material penetrated the right side of his neck . the foreign object measured 3mm x 2mm . his doctor is going to remove it when the swelling goes down .
employee stated that strained his back while lifing a belt roller .
employee was cleaning up in the hydrate bag area when a bag of lime broke and caused some lime to get in his right eye.this became a lost time on 4/28/11 with restrictions that prevented him from doing his job . he got a full release on 4/29 and worked thru 5/2 until the dr put the restrictions back . he is again lost time as of 5/3/11
employee was removing 3 '' waterline that was hooked to the hydroseeding truck . pump that was hooked to truck was on automatic . when the employee unhooked the line the pumped kicked on and the hose struck the employee in the neck causing a laceration requiring stitches .
ee was driving tractor trailer . the roadway to the refuse site had been watered to suppress dust . the temperature had dropped and the roadway froze partially . ee was blinded by bright sunlight and his speed was exceeding the 10 m.p.h . limit . the truck failed to negotiate a turn and drove off the road , striking a cement wall .
ee was changing out a pump when the shaft slipped and caught his two left fingers between the bottom of the sleeve nut and top of the gland . the ee recieved stitches on one finger and further treatment on the other finger . the ee has not returned back to work .
during an inspection of the hart street elevator by msha inspector a damaged place was discovered on the govenor rope near the bottom sheave . the hoist was immediately taken out of service and the msha one call center was notified .
while cleaning along side screening plant , a particle of debris had gotten in his eye . i flushed impacted eye , numerous times . the employee still felt pain . i then sent him to our medical center for futher treatment .
employee was dismounting a mantrip , while getting out of mantrip he struck right knee on a link of chain that was welded to side of mantrip . lost work days began 11/3/04 .
ee was in the process of changing the bit on hisdrill rig when the bit slipped and landed on hismiddle finger .
ee was unchoking gypsum from basement area . ee picked up a steel bar weighing in excess of 80 lbs to begin poking area . after 5 minutes , he felt a pain in his stomach .
ee was unloading parts off of a supply truck . he was pulling on a large cardboard box setting on a skid in order to position it to be picked up by a forklift . in the process of pulling on the nbox , one corner ripped off throwing ee off balance . he fell backwards off the truck bed . whi8le falling , he struck a box that was being moved by a forklift . then he fell to the ground with al
ee slipped & fell on the steps when going down to the # 1 belt to pump water out of the sump hole . he was placed on restrictions after seeing a hand specialist on 12/19/00 .
employee was walking from crusher back to loader when he stepped on side of six inch rock , foot slipped off rock , causing pain in lower back . after examination by dr on monday , he recommende d that employee be kept off duty status until all issues of employee's condition are resolved .
bolter had installed last bolt in a row , dropped trs and trammed drill forward . he was not paying attention and had his foot under the tire of the drill .
was opening lid on pneumatic tanker when ee pulled up on lid hand slipped . when ee was climbing back up the ladder , ee noticed finger was bent a little and was not completely straight . the doctor is stating that ee has acute mallet- finger defect ( ruptured extensor tendon ) to distal interphalangeal joint of rt 4th ( ring ) finger .
v shaped rock 7'x14'x8 '' fell out between bolts , hit on bolter , slid off and hit ee ' r leg/foot .
ee was about to help co-workers change v-belts on crusher when he began to not feel well . ee had taken his blood pressure that morning , . ee said he did not feel good , light headed and somewhat dizzy . co-workers told ee to sit down in the shade and rest . he was diagnosed with heat exhaustion by doctor .
ee was being trained as a stacker . he reached on the chain belt for a bag of material ; his glove and hand were caught in the chain belt . resulted in distal amputation of end of right mid finge r. returned to work with restrictions 9/17/02 .
ee stated that the bolter was moving from the face area to load supplies onto the bolter . as the bolter was moving , ee was attempting to move the cable out of the way , when the track mounted bolter pivoted on a rise in the bottom and the deck end of the bolter came down on his r foot .
employee fractured his little finger ( l ) when it was caught between the level wind & the mounting bracket .
ee was checking water levels in the scoop battery when the lid fell onto his left wrist/arm . lost time injury
ee was loading a car with the miner in the no . 4 entry . a piece of draw rock fell striking him on the back of the right leg . he was transported to the williamson memorial hospital for treatment .
ee was under dozer doing maintenance , while crawling out he hit leg on a rock . notified supervisor on 8/20 , went to er on 8/21 .
ee was welding on a tip cylinder and a small piece of slag went into his boot ( bb size ) and burnt his right calf a week later the leg became swollen and painful treated for staff infection
ee was repinning the intersection of # 2 entry . arock fell from in between bolts and hit his leg and pinner steel that were layed across the boom of the bolter , in turn the steels truck him in the groin area , crossing a tear in his ureathea .
ee was cutting a flight out of the head drive with cutting torches , when a piece of slag fell into his right ear .
tech was reinstalling rim base componets . he had his left hand on componets adjusting to position properly..side ring slipped from tire positioning hand and caught finger tips of fingers on left hand between bead seat band and side flange . amputated pinky finger at 1st knuckle , laceration index finger , loss of finger tips to ring and middle finger .
employee was adjusting the forks on a skidsteer unit to be able to pick up scrap . as he reached between the backing plate and the mast to unlock pin holding forks in place the operator tilted the forks back pinning his arm between backing plate and the mast . employee ended up with a slight fracture and some minor muscle damage on left forearm .
while inch tramming rb on next row of bolts rock fell striking him in back of rt leg .
1085 hoist main ac breaker would not reset due to plc output error . system was rebooted and all checks were completed . there was no damage to the hoist .
the employee was removing angle iron framing and wood from a mcc building . the employee used methods of drilling and cutting during the task , and all work was above the employee's head . the employee was wearing a pair of safety glasses at the time of the incident . a piece of debris flew in-between the employee's safety glasses and forehead and lodged in his ( r ) eye .
ee was operating a miner in # 6 entry # 3 unit , standing between pins . a rock fell out and landed on his right foot . the rock was approximately 62 '' x 42 '' x 0-6 '' thick .
injured employee was lifting the continuous miner trailing cable when they felt pain and a burning sensation in the stomach area . injured employee didn't violate any rules/regulations and has proper training . wearing appropriate ppe . injury caused by overexertion due to lifting .
ee alleges as he was getting off the machine he stepped on a sharp rock & sprained his left foot . he felt pain and that something had broken in his left knee . ee had surgery on that knee & has not returned to work . not expected to rtw for at least 3 to 4 months .
injured person and two other ee were retriving 7200 calb e from one area and re-hanging it in another area along track . person has continued to have pain in the elbow and went to dr. 4-2-04. person received cortisone shot and arm imobilized . 1st day off work 4-5-04 .
ee was operating roof bolter his left hand was on the roof bolt when he hit the rotation lever ee's glove caught on the bolt . ee sustained a fractured wrist & amputation of his ring & littl e fingers .
ee had transported another ee from the dredge tothe pond dock by boat . dock rolled over and ee jumped into the boat . boat tipped forcing ee into water . ee then got back on shore and felt a thr obbing pain in lower back & testicle area a few hours later .
ee was helping to clean out the chute to the impact crusher . he was moving the jackhammer and mashed his little finger between the jackhammer and the side of the impact crusher .
operator was dismounting from a haul truck , had right foot on the ground and when ie placed left foot on the ground stepped on a small rock which resulted in twisting ie left knee . ie experienced pain in left knee and when initial medical evaluation was completed was taken off work pending mri .
employee loaded oil box cover onto little mac to bring outside for repairs . as he loaded the cover he felt a sharp pain in the lower and upper back towards the left shoulder and back area . ee did not start missing work until 11-4-02 .
injured was setting a wooden post ( 5 '' x 6 '' x 60 '' ) under a `` c '' channel approximately 40 feet outby the face area . as the employee reached behind the post and started to move it under the channel , a piece of rock 1 '' x 6 '' x 12 '' fell off the top of the `` c '' channel striking the employee on his left wrist .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the no . 6 track entry one cross-cut inby survey station 1917 measuring approx . 20 ' w x 20 ' l x 6 ' h. the fall appeared to be a horse-back , slick-sided rock .
ee reported back pain after operating loader . no specific incident known .
ee was climbing out of a truck . as he stepped onto the ground he twisted his left ankle . medicaltreatment sought on 1/11/01 . follow-up vist on 1/15/01 resulted in restricted duty .
injured employee mistepped and fell while dismounting a grader after turning on the equipment master switch . he fractured his left wrist in attempt to brace himself while falling .
the shearer operator reported seeing two orange and blue flames about the size of a gallon jug come out of the top and go down the panline lasting for 2-3 seconds as the shearer approached 107 shield mining from the tail to the head . the lone observe said the flames were put out by the drum sprays and the spray bar on the shearer .
ee was attempting to hang a back up curtain when he pulled down a piece of draw slate , it struckhim on the rt . hand causing a laceration .
employee stated they went through man door at 1a near spad # 445 into the intake and slipped on a small pile of rocks and twisted the left knee . employee finished the shift and later sought medical treatment and was prescribed crutches . this incident is being reported as medical reportable due to crutches .
ee twisted rt knee while opening valve .
employee was in the process of emptying a `` b '' silo .
ee reported that he was diagnoseised with carpal tunnel syndrone of both the left and right hands and would have them released .
unintentional roof fall 25 ' inby spad # 6429 . 80 ' ( l ) x 20 ' ( w ) x6 ' to 7 ' ( t ) .
ee was placing a metal hood on a motor and he cut his ifnger on the edge of the hood .
outside pellet mill , payloader was coming towards him , operator of payloader was brining the bucket downward toward level position , foot was pinched by bucket
ee got something to small to see in his eye . it was removed by a medical proceedure . there is no damage or imparment . he is under no restrictions .
ee was spot bolting and mashed his right thumb on the boom
had waterline for miner over shoulder pulling up slack and struck a low hanging roof bolt with the top of his head . later while using slate bar to pry conveyor chain around sprocket , felt pain in neck , between shoulder blades and upper back .
employee was welding wear bars on the bottom of the dragling bucket . he set up a wire feed welder to run on a track torch . he proceeded to weld on the bars with another welding machine . after almost a full shift of welding he noticed he had flashed his eyes .
injured has swelling and great pain in right knee that dr states is a result of having to work and crawl on knees . no specific time or instance can be listed as this occurred over a period of time . first day of missed work 1-12-00 .
ee informed mgt of back pain on 2/12/2013 . ee had been running a skidsteer loader/water truck-did not see physician until 2/15/2013 , an mri was scheduled for diagnosis . 2/21/2013 phys.diag . was a bulging/ruptured disk in lower back-placed on light/sedentary duty . item being treated as work related unless/until directed otherwise by phys .
ee was raising a hinged shield on a brookeville ulpc-9b mantrip in order to access the brake head compartment , when he felt a `` pull '' or `` strain '' in his lower back he was raising the shield . he continued to work until 8/1/03 .
employee was shoveling on belt , employee went to turn to throw material onto the belt and felt pain in back when he twisted wrong . ppe was not a factor , compliance rules/regs was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
twisted back while dismantling and moving crusher equipment . alledgedly happened on 7/15 but employee worked 7/16 & 7/17 then called off work on mon . 7/19 and said he was going to the chiropractor . he was observed moving gingerly on 7/16 and when plant manager asked what happened he said he thought he may have twisted his back on 7/15 but that he would be ok .
while installing roof support , ee activted the rotation lever when a roof bolt bent as he was pushing it into the top , resulting in a laceration to his wrist and palm that requires several stitches to close .
ee was cutting a piece of flat bar on the power band saw . when the cut was done , he took his right glove to turn the power off and then released the vise and grabbed the bar to remove . with his glove off , he cut his right index finger on the bar .
employee alleges self was cleaning skid loader lock arms and ee attempted to set the attachment lock and it slipped off of the machine and cut left shin . employee received stitches .
no accident roof fall at station # 1458 approx . 60 to 70 feet long 6 to 7 ft high 18 ft wide .
moving shuttlecar anchor , ee stepped onto ladder ( with anchor ) ladder tipped over hopped off the ladder landing on a rock with his left foot . degree 5
an unintentional roof fall has occurred at the old # 6 headings # 5 entry spad 6538. the fall was approximately 20ft x 20ft x 6ft . no injuries were reported and no equipment was involved .
while pulling trailer up to pintal hitch on truck the employee states he pulled a muscle in his back . the employee has had previous back injuries . this appears to be a reinjury of the same back location . physician indicates restricted activity and physical therapy visits .
ee was driving 1552 truck and at the end of his shift he complained of a sore back from the truck seat . he was evaluated by a physician and physical therapy was started 12/28/00 .
an employee preparing a hammer breaker at the jaw crusher when the pry bar ee was holding slid suddenly causing the side of ee's hand to be pinched , resulting in a laceration requiring five sutures .
a fall of roof occurred in the 4th right panel off of the 2nd south west submain at crosscut 15 - 16 , # 1 entry . the fall measured approximately 18 feet wide x 100 feet long x 7 feet thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
9 left longwall ee was on # 6 shield , when left foot slipped off while his head was being pushed off . his left foot was caught between the relaybar and the jack base .
ee states he was walking near spillway & fell in hole caused by wash out . given rx for pain 1 week after incident
injured was changing out a basket in the prep-plant . as he was cleaning the old basket a piece of dirt got in his eye . he went to the dr on 4-13-15 and his eye was flushed out with prescription medication .
on 7/10 , ee felt soreness in right shoulder when using a 2 # hammer . ee then used a 20 # hammer & felt more soreness . on 7/18 , ee reported injury and requested to be seen by dr. ee was diagnosed with shoulder pain and returned to work to regular position . on 9/14 , ee requested to be seen by er for shoulder pain . ee was released to return to work on 9/17 with restrictions .
ee was walking in the section when he struck his hard hat against a j channel supported from the roof .
ee was moving wire when another employee attempted to start the wire saw twisting ee's finger . ee said the accident happened on 9-16-2013 but did not report the accident to anyone until 12-16-2013 , 3 months later . he was at work everyday since 9-16-2013 and continues to work up to the time of this report . ee went to the doctor on and they said he might need surgery .
the elevator at the # 9 portal went out of service at 4:15 am . there was no one on the elevator , no one trapped . the incident was caused by a bad wire from the hen house to the pit . schindler elevator service was called and the elevator was back in service by mid morning .
ie was helping with the longwall recovery . the material in the pumpable cribs had mixed with the mud & water on the recovery face . employee had gotten this chemical on the back of legs & buttocks . it caused chemical burns to the skin . the dr kept ee off for 5 days due to the burns .
ee was handling rockdust bags & strained his right elbow
ee was installing liner in head boxes of conveyor . ee lifted liner around waist high and felt a strain in his back . the liner weighed approx . 75 lbs .
a fall of roof occurred in the # 3 entry , in the 3d panel at x-cut 35. the fall was approx 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 8'- 10 ' high .
while rappelling during a mine rescue training , the employees left knee twisted when they contacted the ground . the employee did not seek any medical attention for several weeks . the acl was torn and required surgery on 9/16/15 . work activities were not restricted until that date .
while bending over to pick up a piece of paper between seats in mantrip van , ee twisted his back . he has had a history of back problems . reason being late mine has been on vacation shut down .
the inj was pulling cable off reel of shuttle car in the process he felt a pain in his lower back as he was pulling & twisting on the cable
a non injury roof fall was discovered in the # 1 south panel in the # 6 entry at 2375 & 2386 spad app 40ft long 18ft wide and 10ft thick . neither ventilation or primary escapeway were effected . the affected area has been cribbed off and dangered off .
cold weather caused the bins to stop up ee was using a long bar to dislodge material into the truck bed . shortly after ee complained about muscle spasm in bicep of right arm .
the ee was getting out of his truck on the job site , when his back gave out and he said his back hurt . the ee stated it felt like he pulled his back . panel doctors said it was a pulled muscle .
ee was helping drill operator pull hose when ee fell and injured left ankle
ee was hanging ventilation curtain , his foot was sticking out from underneath curtain , pinner ran over right foot causing contusion .
conductor mounted the cut of loaded railcars to protect the move to the hill , and as he mounted the railcar , pulled a muscle in his right shoulder . employee was instructed by doctor to be off work and attend physical therapy for a potential muscle tear . foreman was not made aware of incident until 11/30/2008 .
the employee was at the 5320 supply lay down loading 4-foot split set bolts into the lhd bucket when ee's hand caught the banding that holds the bundles of bolts together .
emerald # 1 elevator went down at 4:03 am on 5/30/2015 due to a plc fault . the elevator was down until 5:18 am when the plc fault was cleared and the elevator was put back in service .
ee reported that she was moving pallets into theelevator with the walkie stacker and when backing out of the elevator she had her arms fully extended when the jack caught on something and stop ped abruptly .
the elevator in # 6 shaft became inoperable when , after ascending to the surface landing the doors would not open . it was found that a solenoid on the mine bottom used to control the doors ther e had burned up .
the door on side of stedmon mill was frozen . employee was trying to pry it open . he lost grip and the door sprung back catching tip of his left little finger between the door frame and the door . the door is constructed of 3/4 '' steel plate . the frame is also steel . employee received a fracture to his left pinky finger .
while installing pipe spool on tb-20 exhaust stack , some hot slag popped off weld and went down his sleeve . slag stuck to his watch band and burned his left wrist before he could get his gl ove off .
while performing his normal duties as a working supervisor employee experienced pain/swelling in both knees . employee returned to work his next shift however the following day he received medical attention of which he was diagnosed as having prepatella bursitis and consequently started missing work on 08/25/2010 making this reportable .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the unit 5 entry 8 crosscut 41. the roof fall measured approximately 18 ' in length , 17 ' in width , and 10 ' in thickness . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8448265 ) , was issued march 22 , 2013 , by msha inspector .
ee was putting together a 4 '' plastic water line . he was striking the end with an ax to join it together . a piece broke off the end and struck him on the thumb . broke his right thumb .
ee had his hand laying on the side of the boom , when some material fell off the top of the canopy , striking him in the hand and cutting his left ring finger . the ee received 3 stitches in his finger .
we were notified on february 10 , 2014 that ee has been diagnosed with black lung disease .
employee was struck by a lhd as it passed by him in a 12.5 ' wide drift while going around a curve . the contact broke a bone on the outside of the left hand , a bone at the tip of the little finger on the left hand and cracked two bones on the outside of the lower spine .
a roof fall measuring 20 ' long , 20 ' wide and 9 ' thick was discovered inby spad 2938 # 2 entry in the old # # 6 mains . the fall was 3600 ' outby the working section , ventilation , equipment , and the travel of personnel was not affected . no injuries occurred from the fall , the type of roof support in the area was 48 '' resin bolts .
driver and passenger where driving down haul road to pete bajo pit from leeville . when trying to make left hand turn the truck rolled onto the passenger side .
employee was operating a loader , he hit a rock or bump & it caused him to hit his left rib cage on the armrest of his seat . the impact fractured a rib on his left side . he was wearing his seatbelt .
while eating employee got something in her right eye . other ee's washed it out and ee still complained about pain in her eye . she was taken to concentra where her eye was determined to have been chemically burned .
ee was walking out of the mill building and slipped on the ice . poor weather conditions . ee did not go to the dr until 2-25-00. went to chiropractor/diagnosis grade 1 sprain to right shoulder .
while changing a drill and reamer bit on 75k tamrock production drill ee . pinched right middle finger tip between bushing and drill bit causing hairline fracture in the very tip of finger .
ee cut middle finger of the left hand with a pocket knife while cutting plastic banding straps that held boxed bolts to a pallet .
an unintentional fall of the mine roof was discovered at the # 65 cross cut along the longwall panel . the fall was approximately 80 ' long and 4-12 ' high . the fall was immediately reported by phone .
ee was underground hanging pumpable bag . timber creeled out & a large rock fell from top , pinned him to mine floor from knees to upper body .
ee was cleaning a drinking glass when the glass slipped from her hands and broke , leaving shards of glass in the sink and a bowl full of dirty water . the ee reached into the bowl of water to r etrieve a piece of glass and the glass stuck into the palm of her hand .
employee was positioned on a long/wall support pontoon to remove a relay bar bolt while the afc panline was being dismantled/removed outby him . as the outby section of pan line was removed , it created a jarring motion of the pan line where the employee was working and struck the employees knee , causing pain/injury .
ee operated several front end loaders over a 24 year period . he developed carpal tunnel syndrome in right wrist from operating the controls over this time period .
ee was trimming packing material with a serrated knife for a tail bearing installation on fm3 dust collector . ee stated was not having efficient success , so switched to using a box cutter . during the process of cutting action ( towards body in a sitting position ) the box cutter slipped off material , then cut a three inch gash in upper thigh .
employee was holding loose end of waterline when another employee pulled on waterline causing his left little finger to get caught between 2 waterlines . ( required stitches . )
04/2006 stepped on timber head to gain access on loaded barge . foot slipped off timber head and bruised rt . heel . treated 04/2006 through 08/2006 with prescription , heel support and exercises . 01-29-2007 continued discomfort . sent to orthopedic and received injection .
employee was replacing a damaged track on a asv loader . as he was attempting to pry the track into place with a bar , the bar slipped and caused the employee to strain his abdomen which herniated .
employee was standing on rebar grid and was tying rebar . he was bent over and his right foot slipped off of the rebar that he was standing on . as his right foot ( heal ) slipped off he hyper-extended his right knee . he said he felt immediate pain and discomfort but not enough to stop working . later in the afternoon after standing on it he became sore and stiff .
ee was dragging oil cans off of shearer & felt a pain in right shoulder , rt chest & neck . cont 'd to work with repeated trauma to shoulder for 5 mos . when exploratory surgery was performed to determine it there was any kind of injury to shoulder . diagnosis is undetermined at this time .
the elevator at patterson creek portal was out of service due to the door bracket failing . the door bracket was repaired and the elevator returned to normal service .
ee claims that a load of overburden dropped into his truck during the normal loading process , jarred him around and created a cramp in his neck .
north 8 , 0 to 1 block , 7 entry , mmu 004. support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , screen . 17 ft wide x 70 ft long x 8 ft high . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall and clean up plan posted .
employee was operating a ramcar when he ran over a sliding curtain rail with his back tire and it rolled up into the operator's cab with him and cut his right arm . he had stitches put in lower right arm .
ee was operating the box erector putting a empty box in machine . while doing so the ee felt a sharp pain in lower back region . the doctor put him on restrictions of not lifting over 20 pounds until jan 28th , thus constituting as a msha reportable accident .
a roof fall occurred in the return entry located at # 17 crosscut along the # 2 belt line no injuries from this fall . the fall measured about 18 ft wide 18 ft long and 6 ft high .
while replacing belt and tail pulley on mp02 conveyor . the ee was helping left the tail pulley into place when the tail pulley slipped and caught his hand pushing it against the frame .
the employee was struck on tip on nose by pin wrench ( 24 ' ) . he continued to work and missed the 11th ( family health care assoc ) . `` as requested by msha , the following information is being submitted by brody mining , llc as a result of a part 50 audit for ppov '' .
while operating the bolter on the miner , ee was reaching over with his right hand to turn the water off when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . the following day he complained of a pain in his shoulder . he was then taken to the hospital evaulation .
crawling onknees , right knee swelled .
ee fell on ice & snow breaking right wrist .
ee was puling on a ripper motor while in a bent over position .
ee was obtaining metal outof a storage rack whena strong wind blew dust & debris into his area . the ee was treated at the local clinic & retd to work
employee had attached a chain cumalong to the a section of grating and was applying upward pressure . he had also placed a 30 '' spud bar into the grating with the intention of applying leverage to the low spot . the weld and clip holding the grating broke loose causing the spud bar to be thrown upward and strike the employee on the nose .
ee was setting a 6 '' beam on a new overcast wall , the beam caught a high spot in the wall causing the beam to roll over striking the ee's right hand and fingers . the ee's right hand ( ring finger ) received a severe cut from the palm to 2nd joint of finger . sutures were required to repair cut .
employee was on the elevator when pulling down saftey cage . employee felt a pain in his lower right back halfway into the pull . employee was placed on alternate duty by physician .
ee was clearing up roof fall . he was setting timbers , cut the band off a bundle of timbers . theyfell and landed on left foot .
while coming down steps at back of service truckhe stepped on a ridge of loose dirt twisting hisright ankle . the ridge of dirt was caused by ruts from truck on pad .
details unknown as no report filed by employee . an investigation by mine mgt . has not determined if a part50 cfr reportable event has occurred . this report is being filed under protest and in response to msha by employee .
while attempting to loosen an adjustment nut on the jaw crusher , ee missed his target w/hammer , causing the ankle iron piece to become dislodged and cut his hand .
ee was helping hook up hay trailer when he picked up the trialer , he hurt his back .
an unintentional roof fall was idscovered on e mains in the no 4 entry at spad 8465. the fall measured 7 ft high x 18 ft wide x 50 ft long .
the crane operator was moving an outrigger pad and strained a muscle , non reportable at that time . on 5/2/07 , the ee received medical treatment for the stain as it worsened in time .
a nissan titan extended cab traveling noth 129th east avenue in tulsa ran a stop sign at a `` t '' intersection , ramped a set of boulders and berms and fell into an inactive area of the mining pit .
the hoist operator of the jewell shaft double drum hoist was lowering three employees down the jewell shaft when he noticed a spike in the reading on the hoist amp guage . he immeditely stopped the hoist and the hoist was not moved again until personnel went down on the chippy hoist to do a visual inspection of the shaft & the skip the employee's were riding on .
a roof fall occurred adjacent to the last shield on the face causing the entrance to the tailgate to become blocked , preventing egress off the tailgate end of the longwall .
after installing a curtain board for ventilation controls , a piece of draw rock fell between the permanent roof supports roof bolts . striking ee on the shoulder and lower back . he missed work on the 10/10/05 threw 10/13/05 .
ee stated he was going to end of the track and some dirt got into his rt . eye . eye was cleaned by dr. and eye drops perscribed .
150 ' ft long x 29ft wide x 3 ft high .
ee and another ee were changing out 8 '' clarkson valve on # 3 header south . as ee was working , he bent down & when he stood up , felt a pain in his right knee . ee will be on restricted duty pending a medical evaluation/diagnostic tests . will see an orthopedist .
employee was performing permissiblity on a diesel powered rock duster . employee posisioned him self in a pinch point . the ending result was employee received a fractured left wrist . this is a lost time accident
the employee was performing routine task of moving gates in the screen blending chute to change size of product . while using a pry bar to move gate , his hand slipped and bumped his elbow on the steel frame of the screen . impace caused a brusing & swelling to left elbow . he has been placed on `` off duty '' status per dr.follow up on 6/2/06 .
fall occured on the # 4 belt line at # 16 break . this area was bolted with 4 ' and 6 ' resin belts . fall was approx . 20'x18 ' long 6 ht . fall was cleaned up bolted and screened . cribbs were set on both sides in x cuts to try and precent a fulterfall in this area .
ee was raising the gantry when the gantry fell and pulled the ee's arm .
cleaning wheel rust from wheel wind blowing caused rust to blow into eye.piece of rush had to be removed from eye y
ee was dismounting off of a blade and slipped on the bottom step , putting pressure on left arm/shoulder . ee heard and felt a pop in shoulder . ee began to feel pain in shoulder .
the employee was setting and seated in the rear of the diesel powered mantrip going underground to his section . the mantrip bounced causing the employee's head to contact the stationary handrail . the incident resulted in lost time injures .
ee was mopping floor & hit hand on wooden bench
the ee has developed symptoms of carpal tunnel . he underwent surgery on 4/24/00 and 5/10/00 .
roof fall in # 1 entry -- 2100 ' outby 001 working secvtion return -- near company , spad # 29547 -- will not be cleaned up . no airways blocked . 20 ' x 20 ' .
another employee hit victim's finger with a hammer while trying to knock pins out of the teeth of 700 trackhoe .
ee was releasing a 1.5 tone come-along when he felt pin across his lower back .
ee was helping install a punch plate on the screen deck and had his fingers around the plates opening as it was being pushed into place . caught finger on cross rail , ripping open end of finger , which had to be sewn back together at hospital .
ee alleges he strained his back installing belt rollers on # 4 belt note : ee started missing work on 2/1/01 due to this alleged accident
this ee was struck by anfo and an anfo hose when a valve was inadvertenly energized .
ee removed section of catwalk to work on sectionof pipe while moving around ee inadvertently fell into opening
ee was adjusting truck seat & the back of the seat bumped his elbow . ee did not start missing work until 4/15/02 .
ee was roof bolting when his glove caught on drill steel and twisted finger he had a laceration on 2 middle fingers on his left hand . 14 stitches .
employee was cutting a rockdust hose with a utility knife and the knife slipped and cut his other hand . the employee was cutting away from his body but his left hand was holding the hose .
employee slipped and fell on his back . at initial visit to the clinic , all x-rays were negative and the ee was given a full duty release . during a follow up on 11/11/14 , new x-rays showed a fractured left 2nd and 3rd rib . the ee was placed on restrictions .
mine fire - a mine fire was discovered @ the # 1 slope portal @ 05:39pm by guards . the fire dept was dispatched & the fire was extinguished @ 06:04pm . the fire occurred from work being performed during demolition . the established guidelines for reportability is a fire not extinguished within 30 minutes of discovery . we do not consider this fire to be reportable .
the fireboss during his weekly examinations found a roof fall in the no.3 entry of th 2 left section . the fall is in the sump area driven of the # 3 entry . it is approx . 20 ' long , 7 ' to 9 ' high & 20 ' long . the area has been timbered off and will not be cleaned up but will be sealed off .
a roof fall occurred beginning at spad location no . 3880 and continuing through spad location no . 3875 in the last line of crosscuts to the face . the fall measured approximately 175 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . a continuous mining machine and roof bolting machine are inby the fall area . the were no injuries .
ee bent down to pull miner cable out of the mud and put it on the miner to move it when he felt something give in his back .
ee was assisting co-worker with plant maintenance inside primary shaker when the flash from welding being conducted by co-worker caused burns to his eyes . given prescription for pain .
ee was operating an end dump in muddy conditions . his end dump got stuck and he needed the assistance of a dozer . as the dozer contacted the rear of the end dump , the impact jarred his back . he had some pain in his lower back , neck and between shoulder blades . he did not see a dr. until 3/3/03 , he received restricted duty at that time .
ee was walking to line # 1 preheater elevator when he walked on side of right foot causing sprain to right ankle .
while loading supplies on the roof bolter , employee twisted to grab another handful of bolts when he felt his knee `` pop '' . he fell down grabbing his knee in pain ; when knee was checked there was no swelling or visable signs of injury .
ee states that he experienced pain in his right shoulder after using an 8lb sledgehammer to open a valve . on 3/28/07 , ee was removed from work due to work limitations placed by his treating physician . first lost work day was 03/29/07 . surgery is pending .
# 2 heading on the # 012 mmu . had an unintentional fall from break # 21 to # 22 . 10'high x 18'wide x 60'long . fall was timbered off & section was re-located .
while loading belt structure into hauler , turned to load hauler and hurt lower back . ee worked until 3-13-02 and showed up for work on 3-14-02 and told foreman he had hurt back on 3-5-02 and t he dr. said he would be off for 3-4 weeks . started missing 3-14-02 .
employee was ascending steps in the bunker when he stumbled falling forward . he stuck his hands to catch himself and hyper extended the fingers on his left hand backwards . the injury was diagn osed after x-rays as a fractured metacarpal of the left hand and was placed in a cast .
ee felt pain/soreness in lumbar area of back at end of shift after driving truck for ten hour shift
ee was putting a scoop on charger . as he did an arc occurred which put 1st and 2nd degree burns on his right hand .
while descending ladder on the cat 990 loader , ee slipped on one foot causing rt knee to strike battery box .
ee was calibrating a cememtn packing machine . the 2 calibration weight were 25kg ea . and ee was lifting them off together . as he was lifting them off the cradle , he turned to his left to exit the packer when he experienced pain in his lower left back . he paused and then continued to walk around and set the weights down . another worker was watching and noticed ee wincing in pain .
ee was struck by a rock that fell from the mine roof as he was in the process of cleaning gob to set timbers .
ee was handing a troughing roll to co-worker . he thought the co-worker was ready to accept the roll . he wasn't , so ee grabbed for it and pinched his finger between the roll and frame . cut required stitches .
while shoveling coal on 1/19/2013 felt pain in lower back , then on 1/21/2013 shoveling coal again and pain severly increased
injured ee was holding onto drill steel with up pressure on head . he was attempting to drop head to change bit end . steel broke in 2 pieces . top part remained in roof & other part in drill head . upward pressure abruptly raised to roof injuring thumb .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west submain , # 4 entry , # 3 crosscut . the fall was approximately 18 ' long , 18 ' wide and 8 ' tall . the area was bolted with 6 ' & 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
ie was helping on the longwall recovery face . ee was unhooking the shield to walking shield hoses . ee was standing between the shield & the crib when a 2'x4 '' x2 '' -4 '' thick rock fell on ee . ee had 1 small laceration on forehead that required stitches & another small laceration on the back of the head . no broken bones were found by the dr .
employee was stepping off of cement onto black top and fell landing on right knee . this was just a first aid accident until 4-7-10-became lwc accident .
ee was walking across an elevated steel mesh walkway to a control house , when he slipped and fell on the walkway . it was snowing and sleeting at the time . the mid-rail and hand-rail prevented the ee from falling to the ground .
an un-intentional roof fall occurred in the lob intersection of # 5 face & lob left . the lob spad # was 1925 and this was 2 crosscuts inby the feeder located in the # 4 entry @ spad 1909. the area was supported with 4 ' resin bolts , and 6 ' torque tension bolts . the fall measured approximately 20 ' wide x 30 ' long x 6 ' thick . it will not be cleaned up .
a roof fall above anchorage was found by the weekly examiner . this fall was due to normal weathering . the fall was 18x60x6 and blocked the travelway of the examiner . there were no injuries with this accident . the ventilation was not interrupted and the area has been dangered off at all approaches . this area was mined in nov. 2014 .
ee slipped an dfell when exiting explosives magazine . torn muscle in tail bone area .
the employee was rigging a 6 ' long piece of 6 '' dia . pvc ( plastic ) pipe with chain hoists , the pipe slipped and fell app . 15 '' - striking the employee's left hand .
employee was setting a stiff jack at 6 headdrive , when a piece of drawrock fell , hitting left hand ring finger . 5 sutures required , employee has returned to regular duty with no restrictions .
ee cut left index finger with a cable winch .
ee was operating a cat 769d haul unit from the pit to the primary crusher . on his 9th trip the employee stopped and told his supervisor that he was experiencing some lower back pain . diagnosis was back strain . ee was found to be operating the truck too fast for the conditions . the haul road was smooth but ee was taking dry water crossing too fast .
ee was riding in an open mantrip when the loop wire that was hanging down came in contact with his lower lip causing a cut , requiring 5 sutures .
on 9/16/03 , employee had climbed down a ladder and stepped to the ground . as he turned to walk , he tripped and fell . this injured his right shoulder . employee sought medical attention and was released for normal duties . after continuing to expperience problems with his shoulder furthur medical evaluation determined that surgery would be required . outpatient surgery - 1/9/04 .
ee states he was wiping sweat from eyes using his shirt . while doing so he thought he scratched his eye . during weekend his eye became irritated and he went to the e.r . a small piece of rust was removed from his eye .
after loading the loader onto the low-boy trailer , the ee slipped on the tire when covering the exhaust & removing the antenna . he braced his fall from about 5 ft with his right arm straining his right shoulder
ee was hanging cable for drill and hurt lower back .
injured was changing the screens on rotex # 1. the screen is located near the top of the building and it was extremly hot that day . his dr had recently adjusted his blood pressure and he had been having some trouble with light headiness and dizziness . this may have contributed to the problem .
ee was moving miner cable to move the miner from # 3 entry to the # 6 face . he felt discomfort in his back after doing this task . another ee was helping him . later that day ee walked the primary escapeway route out of the unit to the bottom , as part of escapeway drill . this also aggravated his back . ee cont . to work - 1st day missed : 5/7/04 . removed from duties by doctor .
a roof fall occurred in the 11 seam at crosscut 208 in entry 5. the roof fall measured approximately 20'l x 18'w x 3't . the roof fall will not be cleaned up . the secondary escapeway was re-established in the adjacent entry . the roof was supported with 4 ' fully grouted roofbolts and date of development was 10/2007 .
ee was cleaning on top of the hopper and slipped .
while bagging material a propout blew off the mast of a forklift and got into left eye .
the employee was using an airlance to clean out a chute when his left hand became pinched between the chute and the airlance .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the # 130 mine on # 5 belt , # 6 entry , brk 29 at spad # 5305 that measured 60 ' long , 10 ' high and 20 ' in width . the area was developed 3/31/06 . no injuries were reported .
roof fall ( 7000-1-023-02 ) : main d unit , x-cut # 104 , entries 7-8. dimensions : h:5.5 ' , w:18 ' , l:32 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale , laminations and plant fossils were present . roof su pport : 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
miner stated that approximately 2 wks . prior , he had felt a slight pain in his l shoulder when trying to pull an actuator chain to open a flow valve to load-out . on the 16 th of july , the butterfly valve was again stuck , and required a extra hard tug to open , this time causing a possible sprain to the left shoulder muscles . driver this time sought medical treatment .
while attempting to mount a cat 777d , an employee with 2 years of mining experience had the wire rope ladder swing forward towards the vehicle causing the employee to fall downward with right foot still on the rung and landed on ee still extended left leg . as a result the employee suffered a hyperextension of the right knee .
ee was picking up a piece of metal and felt something pull in their lower back
two ee installing fuel tank , accumulated fuel residue was deposited on lower coverall legs . later while installing stinger cover , ee was standing on cover holding it in place when sparks from welder ignited coverall legs . ee received 1 st. degree burns on hands and left leg and small 2nd degree burn on right calf .
employee was using 90lb rock hammer to break up rock in the headgate . the hammer slipped out of the employee's hands striking another employee causing injury to the second employee'e hand .
ee was standing on continuous miner in high top , checking top . stepped off miner slipping on a slick rock and fell striking his right wrist on a sharp rock .
ee was loading glue onto roof bolter and twisted to load glue and hurt back .
employee was hand thermalling a stone 2 '' x 24 '' x 36 '' set on edge on the rollers . the stone tipped and fell onto his foot breaking several bones .
a face ignition occurred on the d mains section @ 12:05pm . the power was de-energized and all necessary government agencies were notified .
operating d-10 dozer on the fill . he had turned his front lights and fender lights off to dismount machine . while dismounting he missed grabbing the handrail located on the deadlink causing him to fall backward pinning his left lower leg and foot between deadlink and pusharm causing him to fall to the ground . x-rays were negative . on 10-14-05 , injury became l.t.a . poss.mcl injury .
ee was opening the rear gate of a roll off box on a delivery truck . the employee slipped and fell backwards onto his left wrist , causing a fracture .
this boiler maker helper was helping 3 other co-workers bullganging a muscle ring expansion joint and he placed his right hand/fingers in a pinch point just as the expansion joint slid into pl ace .
ee states he had hand on hydraulic boom and leaned over fork truck to check position of hitch . another employee rolled the forks back , catching ee's left ring finger between the barrel and the eye of the hydraulic cylinder , resulting in a laceration requiring sutures .
ee was killing wasp with spray under table on bed of boom truck . he stepped backwards and turnedright at the same time . he stepped into a hole , lost footing and went down on right side .
employee was working on a cushman haulster cart with a flatbed that had flat tires . he was putting tools away and when he lifted the bottle jack up , he twisted at the same time he stood up and he heard a pop in his hip joint and had pain .
while standing or walking about 20 ' from drive over hopper , a haul truck pulling onto hopper drove over a rock shooting it from under tire hitting ee's leg ( r ) breaking it .
at approximently 7:00 am on may 7 , 2006 a dynatec employee noticed a ground fall on the 4835 level of the deep star area of the deep post underground mine . it was located in the b-101 heading . this area began working a couple of days earlier but at this time it was still in an inactive area . after it was secured the roof fall continued out into the active work area .
the ee was tightening a fitting on an air lance . after the fitting was tightened the hose attached to the chicago fitting on the pressurized side of the valve came unattached to the chicago fitting . the hose violently whipped out of control & struck the ee in the leg & face . the pipe clamp ( worm gear clamp ) still attached to the hose , cut his lip and chipped a tooth .
during an idle period the night shift security officer observed a spon com fire in the north field stockpile . no other surface personnel were on site . personnel were called in to extinguish the fire and it took them longer than 30 minutes to get to the mine , requiring an immediate notification and report filing .
ee tripped or stumbled on a piece of angle iron , resulting in a sprain and contusion .
ee was unscrewing a bale , the pipe turned in the clamp , the bale fell on his hand , crushing the hand between the clamp and bale .
ee was fixing shotcrete equipment , pressure released and employee was struck in face and chest by shotcrete . he was seen at the er and diagnosed with chemical burns in both eyes . he was referred to an eye doctor for further treatment . put off work .
employee was using a prybar to lift a mechanism on a railcar door , to close the door . the door was jammed . employee used excessive force instead of getting assistance .
hydraulic pump in the hitachi ex1800 exploded & filled the engine compartment with hydraulic fluid . when fluid hit the turbo on the engines , fluid went up in a ball of fire . fire destroyed the shovel . operator exited the cab & slipped on the tracks scraping his hand . no medical treatment was given .
a roof fall occurred at spad # 348 to spad # 351 blocking travelway to 2 left panel on @ 2 belt . fall meausred 100 ' long 20 ' wide x 5 ' high . cribbed off to be cleaned and supported .
ee and another ee responded to a stuck pallet alarm on unit iv cooler . he became trapped when the cooler pallet released on its own causing the dump arm and wheel to swing up and strike him in the head , pinning him between the dump arm wheel and the rail .
ee was re-bricking the kiln and slipped while installing a brick . the brick pinched the employee's right middle finger causing it to fracture at the finger tip .
employee was in the process of changing out wheel bearing on a underground supply car . the car was turned over on its top inside of the shop floor . he placed the inner bearing on the spindle and placed the wheel on . then while trying to place the outter bearing inside the wheel , the wheel suddenly slid off the spindle . he pull back quickly and cut his finger on sharp bur
ee was operating forklift with foot hanging on one side of the lift . foot struck a pallet of bags of clay twisting his foot & causing sprain
ee was drilling holes in angle on a drill press to make brackets . he had turned the press off and while removing the angle , the drill bit was still rotating some and there was a shaving stuck to it . this shaving caught his glove and twisted his hand around . he was able to pull his hand free of the glove . the twisting resulted in a broken bone in his hand .
warehouse ee was cutting cardboard , at end of shift , with a box cutter so cardboard would fit into compactor when blade of box cutter contacted employees hand resulting in a cut . employee was taken to up health system bell for medical care . employee received seven stitches . employee was returned to work with no restrictions . gloves were not worn , at time of incident .
while operating the supply motor on the main line track , water dripped from the mine roof striking the ee in the right eye .
a roof fall was found 2 breaks inby spad 24605 between the track and intake entry . the fall measured 80 ' l x 20 ' w x 7 ' h. and occurred due to a rider seam above the immediate roof . roof anchorage in the area was 4 foot resin bolts . no persons were injured as a result however , ventilation was affected . the fall was dangered off and ventilation was re-routed around the fall .
ee was crawling to get back on his scoop when a piece of draw rock fell & hit him on the neck & back .
employee alleges injury from latching truck tailgaate . employee tested positive from subsequest drug test . employment terminated . `` report filed under protest ''
ee was walking up the steps of a screen carryinga torch set . stopped to rest and placed his right arm behind a hand rail . when proceeding he didnot remove his arm fast enough and pulled a musc le .
ee jumped off railroad hopper car brake platform and strained his left calf when he landed . ( medication )
fall was discovered 9 main 43 block fall was bolted with 8ft install two and 16ft cable bolts in intersections and every 8ft , 16ft cc cable bolts with straps the alternate escapeway was blocked and mining was stopped immedately , no people was affected or ventilation
injured employee was assisting with the removal of a transmission from a kenworth t800 tandem truck when his right ring finger was smashed between the drive lines causing a laceration and fracture . he was treated at the er and released to return to work . no sutures required for the laceration .
driver was lifting and releasing tailgate of dump trailer in an attempt to clear dirt and debris so tailgate would close . on the last release of the tailgate the driver's left hand ring finger was caught between the tailgate and the bed of the truck causing a laceration which required stiches .
employee stated while bagging pulverized quicklime he received a lime burn to his wrists plus contact dermatitus . employee continued to work until conditions worsened and was advised light dut y on 6/20/01.he has been re-diagnosed by a specialist as to having allergic reaction to lime .
a coal outburst occurred on the 005 section , 7 left panel in # 3 entry inby # 28 crosscut . the outburst was triggered by the continuous miner while mining the `` b '' run to the right .
employee states he opened the door on the truck and stepped out , feeling a sharp stabbing pain in his lower back . ee obtained medical treatment and placed on modified duty 3/14/14 . the ee has not lost time due to this injury .
ee was using a grinder with a wire wheel to chipoff paint on a port so he could weld it . one of the wires from the wheel broke loose & went intohis right forearm . he didn't notice it for a few days & then began to hurt . he went to the doctorto have it removed .
ee states that after doing a variety of work turning valves , changing screens , ect. , that he feltpain in his wrist after work . he was placed on restricted duty
an unintensional roof fall occurred in the 14c section # 3 entry at 3 wall . the fall measured approx . 16'x16'x8-10 ' high . no equipment trapped or damaged .
ee stated he was leaning forward with knees bent attempting to break wingnut loose with hammer & as he pulled hammer up , he felt a strain in his rt . groin area . he thought nothing of it at the time . he worked on closing & opening 2 suction valves & had to reach up for those . he feels the hernia was due to the combination of the 2 actions . non-occupational case , determined by co.dr .
while preparing to inspect & clean the cement plant dust collector , ee struck his head ( wearing hard hat ) while entering the doorway of the dust collector & jammed his neck . ee did no see a dr until 2/23/04 & on 2/26/04 he received osteopathic manipulative treatment .
ee was removing a barrel from a pump , and had a chain fall attached to it . the barrel broke free and pulled the ee's right hand into the intake pipe coming from the flash discharge tank . the right thumb was severed at the distal knuckle .
ee was awarded 5 % ppd benefits for occupational pneomoconiosis .
employee stated he was driving the slinger duster down a travelway , when he thinks he hit a hole and caused him to be bounced up and hit his head on the canopy . he felt in his neck and head . employee had prior neck surgery and the mri showed degenerative stenosis and cervical spondylosis . employee was taken off work on 02/20/2009 .
the ramcar was being moved out of the crosscut , making a left turn . ee started to walk by and was caught . ee was on one side of the curtain and the ramcar operator was on the other side .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 6 entry 1 break inby spad # 247 2,700 ft from the active face . the fall measured approximately 20 ft l x 20 ft w x 0-5 ft h. all entrances have been breakered off around the fall . this area will not be rehabilitated .
while performing a shaft inspections , the crew found the # 3 hoist rope slapping the guide ropes . after further investigation , the groove in the hoist drum for # 3 rope showed excessive wear . th e other 3 grooves were cut to eliminate the problem .
while roofbolting , a piece of roof rock hung up on the drill steel and as the steel continued to rotate , the rock broke off striking the injured on the left shoulder and head . this resulted in contusions to the head and shoulder .
while moving ventilation tubing the employee cut a piece of wire holding the tubes together . when the tube came down it swung and hit ee in the front part of ee's body hitting ee in head and right shoulder . then on the 5-5-16 ee reported to the safety dept . that ee had neck pain and was referred to the emery med . clinic where ee was given a prescription for physical therapy .
a haul truck driver was beiginning an uphill climb in third gear . the excessive speed caused his cat 785 seat to bottom out after cresting a hump . this resulted in a lower back strain to the driver .
walking from tail piece to feeder stepped over feeder timber support lt foot slipped off belt bed rail twisting ankle severely to one side . cause of injury slipping on material in travel way . compliance with rules/regs was a factor , mining equip/system not a factor , miner profiency maybe a factor , ppe was not a factor .
a roof fall occurred in # 1 entry , # 18 x-cut of 2a panel spad # 3016. l 17'x w 17'x 10 ' . the roofwas bolted with 6'point anchor cable bolts .
ee was releasing stored energy off a hdy . cylinder & it appeared to have been released . he started removing the fitting , loosening it with a wrench & then with his hand . there was stored energy on the cylinder & it blew out striking the employee on his left hand between thumb & index finger . the grease blew a hole thru his glove & made a laceration , injecting grease under the skin .
lumbar strain , repeatd motion of spud bar
while working on an engine placed on concrete shop floor , ee knelt on both knees . ee felt some pain in his knee when he first knelt down but it wasn't until later that he noticed bruising ands swelling .
during an inspection of hoist by surface shop , they tripped a slack rope switch to test it & it would not reset . msha was called at 4 p.m. & electricians checked the switch , repairs were made & msha was called back at 4:40 p.m. on same day & told hoist was back in service .
ee was assisting a service rep to install a new wear liner inside a secondary screen . as ee was lying on his stomach on the screen deck he was helping to push the liner approx 2 ' into position . ee reported on 4/8/02 he had strained his left side groin . he was diagnosed on 4/8/02 with 3 hernias . ee began losing time on 4/10/02 .
roof fall found on weekly exam by msha & mine foreman 3nw mains , # 4 entry between spads 4679 and 4698 . 16 ' wide x 40'long x 6 ' high . 6 ' tension bolts rebar belts .
working on grizzly plant , changing a skirt on conveyer nelt . in a croucj position , employee pulled on the air hose and twisted his back .
there was two other miners on-site and neither of them saw what happened . they found ee lying down next to the water truck and the rock crusher water tank . he was bleeding from the back of his head .
while stacking 50 lb bags onto a pallet one of the bags of filteraid onto the pallet one of the bags fell off . worker tried to catch the bag andstrained his back .
ee was standing on top of guard on crusher using a shovel to unclog a feed chute . material in chute gave way , ee's foot slipped , and ee fell hitting angle iron against rib cage .
ee was turning the ring gear on a very large differential checking the lash . as he turned the gear his right index finger was pinched between the screw heads holding the gear and the different ial housing . ee had an open avulsion requiring sutures and fractured finger tip . is a mechanic and can not use his rt . hand and will be off work until cleared to use hand .
the employee was decending the ladder from the operators station , using 3 points of contact . the last few steps are wire rope constructed and the wire rope failed . the employee caught himself with his hand , thus pulling at his elbow and shoulder in supporting his weight , until he was able to stablize himself .
employee was assigned to work with the mechanics to remove the trommel rock box in order to remove and replace the conical rock deflector . employee was cutting the welds and was using a pry bar to remove the structure . using a 5 ft bar and prying up and the bar slipped and hit himself in the jar . the skin was not broken or bruised .
ee was putting 4 '' waterline across belt layed waterline on top of railing and went to push it across , pulled something loose in left shoulder .
employee was climbing into pipe truck and his hand slipped off of handle resulting in a strained wrist . we question the validity of this accident since there were no witnesses , but dr prescribed light duty .
while cleaning the tip of the burner barrel pipe & the front of the kiln & firing hood with a 15 ' long stainless steel air pipe with a 45 bend in the end of it . also a t handle set up upon turning on the valve the air pressure casqued the pipe to suddenly twist in a counter clock rotation and i was hit in the jaw . the blow broke some teeth loose and sheared them off at gum line .
employee was lifting two people to the roof in aboom truck . as he was doing this , he felt some-thing in his left eye ; he was wearing his safetyglasses .
employeeand co-worker were carrying air conditioner up stairs . employee was walking backwards up stairs . they stopped and co-worker let water drain out of air conditioner . this put a strain on employee's back . he did not request to see company doctor until 03-15-2000. this reportable as he was put on a weight lifting restriction of 20 # for two weeks .
ee complained of shoulder pain while operating a caterpillar 980g loader . the dr reported that ee has an upper back strain . he is work restricted duty .
ee and co-worker were installing a catwalk structure approx 8 ' above ground level . injured ee was climbing down to the ground level to obtain another come-a-long when he lost his grip on the i ron , then lost his footing , then fell forward striking his knee on a piece of channel iron . ee's fall protection lanyards were secured to 2 separate anchorage points above him .
ee was instructed to do pm service on 1178 992d cat loader . upon inspecting work area he noticed a large amount of material ( mud ) on rt rear conterweight area which contains batteries & access to engine compartment . he drove loader to rear of oil house & started shoveling material from counterweight . his foot slipped off rear edge & he fell approx 5 ft to ground below .
dropped stone ( while trying to mov it ) and hand was caught between two stones .
ee was packing a pump housing , stepped into a hole and twisted his back .
employee was advancing longwall support when a rock fell from between the support he was standing on and the support being moved . the rock bounced off the panline handrail and struck employee on the lower right leg and foot .
while the ie was using a grinder a peice metal came in behind his safety glasses and sheild .
employee was moving a 55 gallon drum of oil froma pallet on a forklift into the oil shed . drum tipped slightly and employee reacted to prevent drum from tipping over . this action caused him to scrape his right arm against the door frame , resulting in a laceration about 2.5 '' long .
a fall of roof was discovered by the mine examiner @ main east # 4 entry approximately 36+00 . 200ft in length , 18 ' width , 18 ' height . supported by 6 ' conventional bolts , 6x6 timbers & heinzmann jacks .
the ee was helping the mechanic from jw burress to replace a potery head motor on a drill tec drill . ee was lifting the motor from the rotery platform to the service truck . the motor was aobut 38 '' above ground level when ee picked the motorup he turn about 180 degree and sat the motor down .
ee was bolting top and while pushing the bolt up into the hole , a piece of rock measuring approx . 4 '' x 6 '' fell and struck the ee on the hand .
ee states his right finger was smashed when the drill box he was installing slipped & smashed his finger against the drill boom . injury required 12 stitches .
employees were investigating methods to refeed emergency power to mcc during power outages . the employee noticed a jumper wire hanging from the bottom lip of the bucket . while using a voltage sensing probe , an arc flash occurred causing a burn to right hand of employee .
ee was clearing material from conveyor when he felt pain in his shoulder .
ee was scaling in the bench area when a large rock hit the boom of the scaler resulting in his back being sprained .
two employees were in the process of setting the tension . the other was holding tension on spring with spanner wrench . ee was preparing to put a locking pin which holds spring in place , began to place the pin ; wrench broke allowing the spring to release tension . bolt cut through his glove causing a laceration on right hand in the fleshy area below the thumb . 8 sutures .
roof fall a - f entries at 19+86 . 18 ' wide , 20 ' long * 7 ' high in 5 intersections in the 3 south non-working section .
while stepping off of truck onto a platform to check out sparks coming from a conveyor , ee slipped and fell 8 feet and hit both knees .
an unintentional roof fall was found at approximatley 6:48 pm . the fall measured 5'hx30'wx25'l . the fall was dangered off , roof fall cleaning procedures were reviewed and posted at the fall and proceded with the clean-up . the fall was in the # 6 entry , inby spad station # 3756 , mains section .
while in the process of picking up and moving 2-12 ' steel booms , ee caught his right index finger between the 2 booms . the resultant injury was an amputation to the tip of his finger . ee failed drug test .
the injured employee was walking from entry # 4 to entry # 6 to unlock a piece of equipment . when crossing entry # 5 , inby the feeder tailshaft , the corner of the inby rib fell out striking the employee in the face . the coal rib measuring 2'x2'x2 ' pushed the employee to the ground . he had surgery on 9/10/2010 for a deviated septum , which took him off work .
the 600 amp ac breaker for the garden `` b '' shaft automatic elevator had a fault , which rendered the elevator inoperative in excess of 30 minutes .
ee stated his knee popped while performing maintenance on 3-2-01. did not report incident until 3-5-01 at which time saw dr. released for light duty until 3-9-01. determined 3-12-01 not to wor k per dr.'s orders . mri completed 3-13-01. no results yet .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on 4 north mains brk 34 , in the # 2 left crosscut approximately 20 ' north of ss 16267. the fall occurred in the area of the old 3 left panel at the # 4 seal . this fall was discovered by the weekly examiner @ approximately 2:30 pm
a waterline leak was being investigated in our old mine 2 west mains . when the leak was found it was due to a roof fall at crosscut 81 in the old beltine .
had a hose bust on shield , allowing emulsion to spray on ee's face and in eyes . ee went to doctor where he was prescribed eye drops for eyes .
employee hurt his knee when he twisted it stepping up out of mantrip .
panel that mechanic was removing was over the wiper motor on a cat 992 loadeer . it was stuck . pulled harder and when it came loose he reach back to catch himself and pulled muscle in right sho ulder .
ee was climbing a vehicle ladder w/backguard to grease plant equipment when he slipped & fellto the ground causing possible back injury . ee was not carrying anything at the time
two survey crew employees were using a jlg manlift during a center line control stake out . the jlg fell over the high wall from the upper floor to the next lower floor at a location where the face was not sloped & the crew did not know the top of the high wall was not barricaded . no warning signs were posted .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd main north entries at # 12 xc , # 1 to # 2 entry . the fall measured 20 feet long , 17 feet wide and 8 feet thick .
ee , a crusher operator , was cleaning up at the end of the shift . he went into a restricted area below the feed chain while in operation to clean the walkway of debris . with his back to the feed chain , a gypsum rock came over the edge and struck him . the rock caused ee to strike his chin on the end of the chipping bar he was using to clean . suffered a cut on the chin .
while working on a head drive , ee stepped on a slick rock and fell under the drive , striking his back .
ee states that he was coming out of pit on a moderate incline loaded with rock on his first loadof the day . the euclid stalled and he applied the emergency brake . it held on for awhile then st arted rolling backwards and run up on a side enbankment and eased over on its passenger side.seat belt were unavailable but some unexplained reason the ee was not using it .
employee was manually rotating the turbulator pins on the turbulator , when his left ring finger got pinched between the pin and the turbulator casing . the pinch peeled the skin back on his finger , which required 9 stitches . employee had properly locked equipment out and was wearing gloves .
001 section - # 1 entry - spad no 6600. size of fall - 16 ' x 16 ' x 48 '' . number of cribs or timbers installed prior to fall - 02. type - resin-48 '' . type of strata - shale mix , laminated , wet .
ee was in the elevator coming to the surface when the elevator stopped approx . 5 ' from the top . the ee was safely removed from the elevator at 4:35 a.m. by schindler elevator service . the problem was a bad contactor .
ee was sweeping floor when he felt something in his left eye . with other ee assistance , ee flushed his eye with wash bottle then an eyewash . he reported continued discomfort the following day . he was checked by an opthamologist and a preventive antibiotic prescribed for mild corneal abrasion was given .
was on man lift . when decending , the basket caught a pipe and then jolted employee against side , injuring his right shoulder & upper arm .
ee was setting timbers pulled down , a rock hit his leg , knee and foot . abraison to skin .
received a cwp diagnosis on 2/7/2014 . employee last worked on 11/19/2010 and is no longer employed with the company . accident date of 11/19/2010 is to accommodate online reporting per msha ( denver ) instructions .
worker was lifing a block of stone , the flagstone slipped & smashed his left third digit .
employee was helping a repairman repair on a ramcar . he was using a track jack and as he was raising the ramcar stinger up , the jack slipped out and the handle of the jack pinned the victim's hand against the roof .
while training the belt at longwall tailpiece , individual loosened the bolts to the belt roller bracket . individual bent down to watch belt , placed hand on belt structure rail . the top belt roller bracket moved on the rail , pinching right middle finger tip between top roller bracket and bottom belt hanger bracket lacerating finger tip requiring stitches .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by the weekly examiner . the fall occurred in a mains , no . 3 entry at spad 334. the fall measured 20 ft wide , 12 ft long & 8-10 ft high .
the ee was stacking 50lb bags of sand when the accident occurred . as the ee grabbed a bag & started to pivot his heel , he felt a dull pain in his lower back area . the ee sought medical assistance from a local chiropractor . after seeing chiropractor , ee placed on 15lb weight restriction for 3 days . ee ret 'd to work 5/23/07 .
ee was laying on his back changing screens . about an hour later he was walking across the yard and felt severe pain in his lower back .
employee was using hand-held electric grinder inside duct work at the glass baghouse and was grinding the surface of the damper housing when the grinder slipped out of his sweaty hands and cut his right index finger . laceration of knuckle required 2 sutures .
the slope car serving the # 1 portal was taken out of service when the ethernet cable used to transmit communications malfunctioned . the car was unavailable for use for two hours , from 3:15am until 5:15am .
employee stepped off railcar into hole or rut . twisted ankle .
stepping off car to tell other car driver about miner when a piece of rock fell and struck rightwrist .
employee was lubing the 980g loader , unrolled hose from lube truck , climbed up ladder on side of loader caring lube hose . lube hose reel retracted for no reason pulling employee to ground from top of ladder on side of 980g loader .
employee was involved in an exchange of words with another employee . the other employee poked injured repeatedly in the chest with his fingers . at the end of the shift he filled out a minor injury report . on 10/30/06 he was checked by a physician and placed on restricted duty for chest inflamation making this accident reportable .
supervisor had just finished building a crib along the belt in 3 west longwall when a piece of rock fell from the roof knocking off his hardhat & a second piece fell striking him on the head .
climbing ladder up to winch house , struck left kee on next step up .
ee was going up flight of steps to waste plant too fast , not paying attention or using handrails . he tripped in-between steps and landed on his face .
walking across the shop to get into haul truck felt pain in lower back . he has degenerative disc in lower back this reaggervated an old injury .
unloading bales of peat moss from back of 18 wheel delivery truck when a bale of peat fell off of palet knocking ee to ground fracturing rt . arm .
employee arrived at work and told his employees he was up all night with stomach pain . he continued to experience stomach pain and nausea . during a meeting he left the room and collapsed in the hall . cpr and aed was performed until ambulance arrived . employee died on the way to the hospital .
ee was hanging cable when a rock fell from the roof , hitting ee in the head and back .
man was working in the crane man basket changingmill liner bolts on finish mill 3 , 30 ' high above the mill room floor . went to move toward the mill when the crane kept moving and would not stop . tried to stop crane but hand pinched between mill shell and crane basket .
employee was checking to see that the cement load out spout was properly lowered into the railcar located at the combination scale . while on the north side of the railcar and looking up at the spout , employee backed up and tripped over a wheelbarrow and fell to the ground injuring his left knee .
ee injured his right hand in the fairlead of the cable reel truck . there was tension on the cable froming coming off the fairlead wheel . the ee was transported by ambulance . he returned to work the next day . weeks later after the injury he had experienced some tenderness and lost some movement in the finger and started pt for the injury .
discovered a roof fall in the rooms on the return side , 3 breaks to the left of spad # 2827. the fall was 5 ' thick x 18 ' wide x 50 ' long . this area has been dangered off . the fall is 5 breaks from the active section .
ee was removing lower air chamber section of 10 ' air slide with another ee onto a forklift . ee's thumb was caught between the fork and air slide when it was unexpectedly moved by other ee . ee had nail removed and sewn back on as a precaution . ee working with restrictions .
the elevator # 8 was taken out of service @ 10:45 a.m. for ansi 17 testing ( 5 year test ) . no ee's were on the elevator at the time and all escape-ways were re-routed . the elevator was placed back into service @ 8:20 p.m. all neccessary government agencies were notified according to law .
ee was installing roof bolts in are 512 west . while moving the roof bolter from one bolt location to another , the bolter swung to the left and the stabilizer bar struck the inside area of his right foot ankle .
ee was checking off spec door on # 4 grizzly on the # 4 kiln . the door was stuck in the open position and the ee pulled on the door to get it back on the hinges . he felt a pull in his lower back . conditions and work conditions were normal , no slip , trip or fall hazards and poor housekeeping was not noted .
working on shaker , wrench slipped flew up and hit ee in the left cheek .
ee was towing impact crusher down ramp when tracks began to loose grip on frozen grade . dozer slid to side and jack-knifed the dolley because of momentum of crusher . after getting dozer stop ped operator got nervous & bailed off machine ina hurry and lost his balance , falling to the ground , landing on both hands to catch his fall . lt. wrist broken , right wrist sprained .
ee stated in the course of his normal duties that he felt pain in his lower back . the ee had bent over to pick up a piece of rubber belt mat when the pain became worse . the ee has a history of back injuries .
employee was granted an award from wva worker's compensation division for occupational disease ( hearing loss ) .
when the ee was cranking on a jack stand to raise a trailer to line up with a truck hitch , the bolts that hold the jack to the trailer gave way . the ee's foot was positioned under the frame of the trailer , when the trailer fell . it struck the ee's right foot , injuring him . the ee did have steel toed shoes on .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the new future mine at the 5n headgate # 2 entry at station 4496n . the fall was approximately 34 feet long , approximately 18 feet wide and approximately 12-15 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of men . the fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was in bent position lifting miner cable when he felt pain in his lower back . he cont 'd to work until 6/17/02 when the pain began to radiate into his groin area . he was taken off work until 6/28/02
ee stepped on a 4 '' water line and fell . ee did not go to the doctor until 1/17/10 . he began missing work on 1/18/10
ee was attempting to put a 36 '' wodden crib block on top of the battery scoop , as he threw the crib block , he smashed his little finger on his left hand between the crib block and the light housing on the scoop .
a piece of rock slid off the atrs & struck ee inthe face .
a roof fall occurred at the 5200 level crosscut # 4 , a 5ft . x 6ft . x 4ft . wedge came down from the back at the # 4 crosscut nose pillar . approximately eight ( 8 ) ft. split set rock bolts failed from the anchorage zone . the fall did not impede ventilation , travel-ways and / or entrapment . no injuries were sustained . msha
while performing repairs ee fell against hand- rail .
ee was hit in mouth by a come-a-long handle that he was standing near , which shifted causing ee to cut his lip & chip his front teeth .
ee drove truck into a overpass with bed fully raised at approx 20-30 mph . he broke windshield , shifter column and steering wheel while bouncing around in cab . he received 6-8 inch laceration t o his head , and possible bumps and bruises .
employee was pulling a rock off a continuous miner when the rock slid and mashed his left index finger . this resulted in a fracture and a laceration in which he recieved stitches .
ee was installing deck grating and bolting handrail . ee was wearing his fall protection equipment but had taken it upon himself to disconnect while installing bolts . grating was not yet secure d and slid out from under him causing him to fall to next level . fall broke both wrist and caused small laceration to rt calf . no other injuries .
unintetional roof fall 9th west 6th north panel # 10 and # 11 entry crosscut between 10 and 11 and part of # 11 intersection-30'l x 20 ' x 6'-8 ' 4 way intersection . not active working no person re quired to walk this entry .
injured's left little finger was surgically amputated following an accident where the finger was pulled after being caught in a elevator door strap . injured had reached over a safety gate to g rab the strap while the elevator was moving .
ee was moving large rock off longwall shield base pontoon . shield was being used as walker shield during longwall teardown . as ee was moving rock , another rock slid down the base lift jack & c aught his middle finger between the two rocks , causing injury .
during an altercation with another ee , inj ee was struck in nose . both sent home until incident investigated . inj ee did not seek med attention for 11/2 wks . safety dept was notified ee had missed 1 day to see doctor & 1 day for x-rays . all negative .
removing hydraulic pump , strained shoulder ( l ) while moving pump .
co-worker was pushing the coal feeder to move it while injured was tramming from the controls . the bucket of the coal scoop slipped upwards pushing a lid loose and on the right thumb of injure d breaking the first joint on his left thumb .
tripped on rock while going to belt line to help move belt . a rock gave way and twisted leg , injurjing left knee .
employee was driving a truck in the plant area . the truck hit a hole in the road , and ee reported that his head bounced from side to side , making his neck pop .
ee received a cut to the left wrist as he lifted an evaporator heat exchanger plate . he was taken to the er and received nine stitches .
using pry bar to align guard on drag pinnion pushed on bar , felt pain in his neck .
ee was traveling on a rail mounted personnel carrier when the carrier came in contact with another rail mounted carrier on the main line track unexpectedly .
the ee was driving an empty haul truck down to the 4100 level . the ee noticed flames @ the control panel . the ee stopped the truck , this caused flames to enter the cab . the ee attempted to ini tiate the fire suppression in the cab & couldn't because of flames . the ee exited the cab to initiate the fire supression on the rt side of the truck & couldn't reach it . she ran 1000 ' to the
employee was using arc gauge hook up to welder cutting off rebar & all thread from form reinforcement . he went to throw away the used rod & part of it dropped off into his boot & burned his leg before he could get his boot off .
employee was picking colored rock from a moving belt and putting the rejected stone into a 5 gal pail . ee reached and lifted the bucket and felt pain in his right lower back .
employee was working at the metcalf mill south repair bay using shovel to push water to flex off of vacuum truck when ee put right foot in the flex , the employee panicked and sat down and the vacuum hose went up to ee's right calf and employee did have vacuum break as directed on inspection sheet . employee was taken to the urgent care and released home .
a steel got wedged between the long arm of boom and steel tray , it came loose striking ee on right side of safety glass & head .
ee was getting out of his truck when he twisted his left knee .
replacing trunbuckle and channel on conveyor , he removed bent steel attached to motor conduit & gear box . assembley rotated striking the back of his neck . he requested medical attention 10/14 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the # 2 entry 60 feet outby spad # 717. the fall was approx . 16 feet wide x 18 feet long x 70 inches thick . no persons , equipment nor ventilation was affected . the fall has been inspected by msha and roof trusses are being installed as roof support .
employee was using a pick hammer to remove a bolt for the cable stand off on the continuous miner when he struck his left hand with the pick hammer . on oct 3 , 2012 management learned that the employee sought medical treatment and received sutures .
while adding oil ( automatic transmission fluid ) to a compressor that was still pressurized , injured & another ee were both sprayed with oil fromthe unit . some oil went into injured's eye . doct or prescribed ciloxin opthalmic solution .
employee complained of dizzyness as he tried to get off of excavator and lost his balance . employee fell 4 to 5 feet to the ground cutting openhisarm and hitting his head and shoulder . employee was planning on fueling up excavator at time of accident .
ee slipped at entrance to mill , fell & sprained back . began losing time 5/3/01 .
employee was installing a roof bolt by operating a walk-through bolter . as ee was pushing the bolt into the drilled hole , ee felt pain in left shoulder . ee was placed on restrictions on 1-9-18 that restricted from performing normal occupation . ee began missing time on 1-9-18 .
ee was at the south end of pit to help move a water pump . he was walking near the rear of pump when he slipped & fell on his rt . arm , conditions were wet & muddy .
ee using hand-held power tool with wire brush wheel . he was cleaning old metal parts . ee wear ing safety glasses and face-shield felt something in his eye while driving home after shift .
a fully trained miner injured rt . pinky finger when loading a ranging arm onto the longwall face a piece of rock fell from between the roof support striking miner's finger . the injury was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
was cutting the lid off of a plastic container when the knife slipped and cut his left arm near the artenal vein .
ee was working on the cooler . as he exited the cooler he had his foot braced on a pipe . his foot slipped and he fell .
ee was fixing hand rail on haulpak when he felt pain & a popping sensation in left calf
current test indicates that hearing levels have deteriorated from the most recent baseline/ref test , as per osha criteria for standard threshold shift in right ear .
degenerative disc with narrowing associated with mild/moderate prtrusion .
employee stepped into a depression hyperextending his knee . he was referred to a specialist and on 7/23/2015 was diagnosed with a torn meniscus .
employee was moving a rock w/crane . the rock shifted in the strap and the ee lost control due to momentum . his right leg was pinned between the rock and the wall of the building immediate swelling and bruisng upon dr. visit , he was diagnosed w/torn tendons in his right shin/calf .
while bolting at the faces of unit 3 he smashed his left ring finger between a drill stell & thetightening wrench .
roof fall occurred 7/2/12 at section 003 at spad # 11550 . 1000 ' feet from active face . no personal injuries , no equipment involved . no ventilation or passageways affected . 220'l . x 18 ' w. x 8-10 ' h. entrances have been breakered off.mining under 300 ' cover .
ee was servicing continuous miner when he was struck by a falling rock measuring 7'long x 31 '' wide x 0-6 '' thick . the rock fell from between 2 permanent supports & struck the ee on the rt . foot . ee suffered an open fracture to the top of foot .
employee was climbing a ladder to check the johnson screen & hit his head on a vent pipe above the ladder- jamming his neck & chest area . ee was placed on restricted duty .
employee was going up the ladder to gt into the rock truck , his foot slipped off of the first step and he fell to the ground .
the ee was changing batteries on a unihauler and was hanging his jumper cables when he stepped on a crib block causing him to twist his knee . ee did not miss work until 1-24-2000 .
while hauling fill ; iw hit rock on haul road causing pan to jolt .
cap coal struck ee on right ankle .
ee bent down to pick up a pallet . his back hurt and as he stood up , he felt a sharp pain . sent him to the chiropractor .
ee was pushing fill with a d11 dozer , he called for the foreman to come get him . ee stated that he could not stand the bumping of the dozer . he stated that the pain was from a previous injury from a previous employer . ee wouldn't go to the doctor , but he did go home .
lifting 20 ft extension ladder , ladder flipped over and employee twisted his wrist .
employee was changing reel chain on shuttle car , when a piece of the coal rib fell and struck the employee in the upper back and neck area employee was complaining with back pain he was transported to st. joseph martin hospital he received cat scan which was negative and was transported to pikeville medical center and received more cat scans also negative , was released same date .
ee was driving a haul truck , hauling dirt . he backed up to dumps the load . he raised the bed and pulled forward as the dirt yeard the bid , he stopped . the front the truck came down with force , jarring jim in his seat he reach a compression fracture to his back .
a roof fall has occured in the 2e panel at 10+40 in # 5 entry . the fall measures approximatley 30'x20'x7 ' . the roof had been supported by 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts and was caused by an undetected slip in the mine roof .
employee was pushing scaffolding on wheels whena plant fell off hitting him on head .
on 1-2-03 injured was moving some scaffolding int he bucket shed and some dirt fell into his rt eye . he was wearing safety glasses as required . he was transported to dr. eye clinic . the eye wa s flushed and he was given an ophtalmic prescription .
driving volvo to the dump , hit hole , jammed back .
ee was shoveling on # 2 belt . claimed shovel hit on a splice causing the shovel to jerk back - aggravating an old injury where a plate had been installed in his shoulder approximately one year ago .
ee was assisting the left side cm operator with his cable & water line when the edge of a rock rib measuring approx 7'x 8 ' x 2 1/2 ' fell striking his right foot . ee was transported to logan re gional medical center where x-rays revealed fractures to the three middle toes . recovery time unknown .
employee was in process of breaking coal in pit area with a 988 b cat front end loader , front end loader bucket caught ground and stopped abruptly , causing ee to bump into front end loader steering wheel .
ee was trying to free the crow's foot hung on a hog panel when the crow's foot rolled over and pinned ee s right arm .
ee stated that he was attempting to hang a continuous miner cable on the company no . 002 sec . while pushing against the cable to secure it against the rib , his knee gave way and the kneecap was out of place . ee stated that he set the kneecap back into place .
while setting the atrs on the roof bolting machine , a piece of rock came down and struck ee's left foreman .
a roof fall occurred measuring 20 ' x 25 ' x 8-10 ' thick near ss # 2454 , 4 lef6t off 2 east submain . no equipment involved . the ventilation was not disturbed . there were no injuries and the fall will not be cleaned up .
ee was checking the fluid levels on the engine of a mack coal truck when he slipped and fell , hurting the left side of his body . ( hip , leg and side )
injured employee was in the process of cleaning the shop . while picking up a grease bucket lid , employee received a laceration to his right hand . the laceraation required 3 sutures to close .
ee was on a forklift getting a roll of poly bags down to take to the packaging line . prior to doing this the teammate must take the plastic wrap and cardboard off of roll and lay to the side . when ee came back to clean up the trash , got off the lift and squatted to pick up the plastic and felt a pop or something pull in lower back .
the ee was walking on a drill pattern and stated that he stepped backward and felt a pain in his right upper leg .
ee and other were below ee on the working ledge preparing to remove a piece of grout . ee was signaling to aother ee , the flagman . ee had just finished drilling a punch hole in a small piece of grout . the bit hung up , and he went to get a sledge hammer , but tripped on an airline , lost his balance , and fell approx . 8 ft head first onto flat granite surface .
the ee was helping to make a splice in the conveyor belt . he reached down to move the nailer and was hit in the finger with a 2 lb . sledge hammer .
ee alleges he strained his groin & back while pulling cable from a roof bolt machine . note : ee cont to work until 1/26/01 & at that time began missing work due to worsening of his condition
ee was putting anti-freeze into linkbelt 4300 while the unit was running and the air pressure from the fan blew the liquid toward his face and into his eyes .
employee was loading the roofbolter when rock fell from between the bolts , striking him on the back . lost time injury .
employee filed an alledged occupational pneumoconiosis claim on 6/5/10 , claim no . 2010011953. receive notice that a 10 % award had been granted on 3/11/11 . this award will be protested since he was granted no award on claim no . 2004004037 filed on 7/25/03 .
contractor was plastering a stopping and the plaster splashed behind his safety glasses and into his eye . he flushed his eye and continued working but later his eye became irritated . he later went to the hospital . the hospital flushed his eye and prescribed maxitrol antibiotic drops .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in 8 miner mains in # 6 entry , in an intersection near spad 10547. the fall measured 25 ft. wide x 25 ft. long and 6 ft. high .
was lifting a 2 x 10 and tripped on rebar and body went forward and arm stayed .
the elevator at cook's branch became inoperative for more than 30 minutes while the daily examination was being conducted . ee was performing the exam when the elevator stopped . the ee was released at 10:45 am from the elevator and repairs were made to restore the elevator to working condition .
ee left work on 02/02/2016 without reporting an accident . ee reported to the hospital the following afternoon and was treated and released for a back sprain . dr excuse said to return to work the following day 02/04/2016 . ee has not yet returned to work . ee did call on 02/15/2016 and said ee would return next day . has not returned to work as of 02/21/2016 .
ee strained his shoulder carrying a shovel tooth . he continued to do his normal job . an mri by the dr showed a torn rotator cuff . he still continued doing his normal job until 4-7-03 when he d eveloped shoulder pain and could not run equipment . he was assigned light duty .
ee was bent down nailing a spad to hold down a curtain , when a rock fell from the roof and struck him , knocking him to the ground .
while moving cabinets , lost balance and twisted knee . note : all treatment was first-aid until 5/20/04 - now is physical therapy . 7/26/04 : lost time occurred when ee had surgery 7/7/04 for torn ligiments . injured first experienced pain 5/3/04 .
ee was operating a continuous miner at the face area . a loop of trailing cable flipped over and struck him on the side of the knee , bending it to the outside .
ee was on a screen catwalk , shoveling spilled material off the catwalk from a kneeling position . ee set ee's left hand on the material pile to re position self . another miner , who was helping loosen the material pile with a 6 ' digging bar , struck ee in the hand with the digging bar .
employee was bent over starting a pump when an lhd entered the area . the operator did not see the injured employee and struck him with the mucker bucket . the employee did not suffer any msha reportable injuries but was placed on restricted duty .
ee reported he was striking hardened tooth of 992d fel sprocket with steel hammer to loosen when piece of steel split off and penetrated his left forearm .
employee was walking to the mantrip when he slipped in mud and fell . he felt a pull in his groin , came to work 11/02 but pain became worse and he left after two hours .
employee was walking to mantrip and stepped on a rock , twisting his right ankle .
breaker tripped . found and fixed in plc .
ee was operating a d-11 dozer . dozer slipped off a rock and he jarred his back .
employee was using a 5 foot long pry bar trying to bend a skirt board on a conveyor # cc2 when the pry bar slipped off and his thumb was smashed between the handrail and the bar . thought only bruised , but continued to be painful , saw dr. hesaid it was broken .
ee was using welding rod to weld machine and hot weld rod went into boot . this was initially classified as doctor first aid 1/20/04 . effective 2/11/04 it became reportable/doctor treatable d ue to required follow up treatments preventing infection .
a roof fall was discovered in no . 1 entry ( return ) 3-way intersection at survey station no . 4486. the fall is approx 50 ft long x 14 ft wide and contained 6'5/8 '' bolts & timbers . the approachs w ere dangered off and the return airway was rerouted with construction of 5 stoppings . this area on d-6 panel was developed 3/2000 .
employee stated , he was checking vibration on troughing roller and a key stock welded on the roller for a speed switch caught his left hand cutting his middle finger ( employee was wearing gloves ) .
as he was removing the left hoist cylinder from the front-end loader , he had the bucket up sitting on top of a hopper . he started to remove oil line underneath the maching when suddenly the bu cket fell . the loader rolled back and as he tried to get out from underneath he tried to get out from underneath he twisted his arm and hurt his left hand .
while changing a shock absorber on a conveyor head pulley scraper , ee smashed his right ring finger when his wrench slipped .
employee stated while walking up no.5 entry towards the face area , he stopped to get some spad nails off of # 25 scoop to use to ventilate . after retrieving the nails , he preceeded to walk towards the face area when he stepped off a ledge in the mine floor causing his to fall & twist his lt. knee . the mine floor in the area of the incident was damp & slightly muddy .
a fall of roof occurred at the tailgate of 3t longwalk in 3 ac of 25 @ 89 + 20. using 8'rib bolts for trusses and 6 ' combination double fork in center and 2 rows of 6x6 timbers between xc's . slip runs through area lost power on face could not pull shields and lost the roof .
employee was operating a getman tractor , helped load material on man cage , when cage returned to bottom he walked towards his tractor and tripped on a wire rope sling and fell on his hands a nd knees . accident occurred 1-24-03 but was not diagnosed until 2-20-03 with a torn meniscus right knee .
a supply car was lifted by the scoop bucket to remove cement blocks that were under the car . when the ee reached for a block , the car slid off the scoop bucket . the ee's left thumb was caught between the car & a cement block resulting in a fracture .
driver came out of breakroom . a 2nd employee was backing out of parking spot . neither saw the other . bumper of pickup hit driver .
a small fire was discovered at the base of the `` c '' pile clean coal . the fire was about 2'high by 5'wide , 8'long . this coal pile was warm . we waited until day shift management arrived at 6 am a nd a tractor was used to separate the warm coal . the coal self-extinguished once pushed by the tractor . the coal was then blended with other coal and shipped out by rail . no equipment/people
ee was helping hold the wrench and belt when the operator was pushing the bolt up in place and then it bent pushing his thumb into the canopy of the bolter .
a non-injury roof fall was found by the fireboss on his weekly examination . the fall was in the west mains # 1 entry at x-cut 30. the fall measured 25 ' by 25 ' and 6 to 6 1/2 ' high .
driver had chest pains on msha site and was transported via ambulance to ste . genevieve mo . hospital , driver passed away at hospital at 11:11 a.m .
an employee operating a komatsu dozer was pushing an ripping material on a downward grade , somehow the dozer slid sideways and continued to slide 35 feet off a 27 ft high embankment . the equipment rolled one revolution and landed back on its tracks . 911 was called , and then the employee was life flighted from the scene to the university of utah hospital .
ee was assisting in maintenance work by helping lift an 80-pound valve . during the lifting task , the ee apparently strained his elbow . due to persistent pain , the ee was taken for medical evaluation on 10/8/04 when he was diagnosed with tendonitis in his elbow and provided medication and placed on restrictive duty .
ee was assisting with repairs . using a wrench , the wrench slipped , ee slipped and fell backwards from a sitting position onto a rock on concrete . ee incurred bruised muscled in back . ee had a preexisting herniated disk in back , he was currently completing physical therapy so ee was taken to hsp for observation . ee was instructed to rest and stretch the muscles .
unplanned roof fall in the c-2 butt , room # 2 , 1 crosscut outby spad # 608. at the time of the fall , the primary roof support was 4 ft. fully grouted resin bolts .
the roof bolt operator was drilling the roof where a piece of drawrock measuring 20 '' long x 14 '' wide x 4 '' thick fell and struck his left forearm .
emp . states he parked a front end loader and when stepping out from the loader , he caught his right foot in the last bottom step . emp . fell to the ground and when he got up he felt pain in his right knee .
driller was found at the 4140 level underground and unresponsive by the leadman .
employee had both of his hands on a monitor pack that controls power for a miner on mmu 011-0 section when he received electrical shock from 110 volts . he did not miss any work as a result of this injury .
ee states he was loosening bolt & wrench slipped causing him to cut his hand on piece of stair metal overhead .
employee was operating shuttle car when ee hit a pot hole in road way . ee bounced and hit head on canopy .
while harvesting copper cathode , cathode stuck on starter sheet . while loosening the cathode with the pry bar , the cathode slipped off the starter sheet and cut the harvester on the upper arm requiring 16 stiches .
employee was in the process of installing the lid on a vsi . miners were using a telehandle to lower the vsi lid back into place . the lid was slightly misaligned . miner used a pry bar to move lid into place . as he began to pry , the lid shifted and dropped into place and pinched the bar causing it to flip up and strike the left side of the miners face .
ee was handling panning when he received a laceration on his left forearm that required stitches .
temperatures were very high and the humidity was very high . the employee was loading trailers and was overcome by the heat . ee suffered from heat exhaustion .
ee was lifting a return roller ( 40 lb ) . the ee picked up the roller by squatting down holding it near his body & bending at the knees . when he stood up , he felt a pain in left shoulder/bicep area . he was evaluated by a physician on 6-19-14 and given a return to work with restrictions .
employee was checking the oil on the loader when he slipped . he was able to catch himself but wrenched his thumb . he reported the accident and was given first aid . on 10/2 he was seen by a doctor . the doctor released him back to his usual and customary . on 10/26 it was discovered that he had been given rx drugs . this is reportable .
after replacing belt on metal roller conveyor belt the employee and another repairman were tracking the belt . the other employee asked ee to hand him a wrench across the belt . as he handed the wrench across the belt with his right hand his gloved left hand was pulled into the roller .
ee was cutting old bolt with hacksaw . standing on mucker bucket hacksaw blade broke with pressure and ee fell from bucket striking rib & floor . approx . 4 to 5 ft. hurting his head & back .
ee `` blacks-out '' and falls to floor- hitting head on guard rail/hand rail . ee was not exposed to any industrial or work activity event - co-worker describes incident as `` it looked like a seizur e of some type . '' attending physicians have not determined the black out cause .
hitting a pivot pin on the front boom of endloader with a hammer missed and hit his own foot . knocking himself off the fender of endloader .
a non injury roof fall occurred at x cut 28 of 2nd east mains . int he # 3 entry the fall measured 44 ' l x 31 ' w x 7 to 9 ft high in the intersection .
the ee was shoveling cement into a screw box . the ee was raising up with a shovel full of material and twisted at the waist to put the cement into the screw . upon doing so the ee felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
attempting to take a guard off raw mill # 3 tailing screw with another ee , the guard flew up and took the nail off his right thumb .
on 4-5-06 employee was tramming the bolt machine from the # 4 entry to the # 5 entry . he backed the bolter out of # 4 and was turning toward # 5. while pivoting the machine with the inch controls , a fly board lying in the fly board rack went against the rib and swung out toward ee hitting him in the left temple area .
employees were cutting a bolt out of a screen . ee was attempting to knock the bolt out and a piece of hot slag landed on ee's face near eye . when ee tried to brush it off , brushed it into eye . ee was wearing safety glasses at the time of the injury .
ee was in the primary feeder to see if a large rock way stuck in the crusher when he stepped on a rock twisting his right ankle and breaking it .
