he was pulling a 54 inch v wiper and felt pain in his lower stomach
breathing difficulties . employee provided first notification of this incident 7/26/05 .
while palletizing flat rock ( landscape stone ) injured person was swinging a maul and twisted his lower back causing a minor strain on lower back muscle .
employee was helping load bolts on roof bolter on 1 section . as he loaded the bolts he said he felt a pain in lower back . he did not go to see doctor , and continue to work every day till october 6. he never said anything the whole time or on october 6 about back hurting . he called us october 7th , and said his doctor had him off on the strain from the 9-14-2015 incident .
employee stepped into hot feed and fell while looking for cause of power outage
employee was getting out of the mantrip when he got tripped up trying to get out and he fell on a 6 '' water line that was on the ground causing him to hurt his ribs .
employee was using cutting steel bearing mount on the end a caterpillar d11n push arm . as he was cutting the bottom section , a small piece of hot slag ( &lt; 1/4 '' diameter ) blew out and got under his cutting goggles , burning the bottom of his left eyelid .
employee was attempting to bolt a shaft to a gearbox , when the shaft slipped in clamp pinching left thumb between clamp and coupling .
bumped head in truck and that aggravated back injury
employee was packing in # 1 mill when his right leg slipped on the steel railing and he fell down hitting his left knee on the steel rail . he was taken to pershing general hospital where he was given a knee brace and crutches and returned to work on light duty .
cleaning screens on temple using a drill with a rust stripper to clean screens was wearing safety glasses . everything was ok and went on to pump . eye started to bother him around noon . went to doctor next morning .
employee was grinding on angle with handheld grinder on friday 2/6/15 . he finished his shift and went home . the next evening ( sat 2/7/15 ) , his eye began to hurt and went to the emergency room at 2am on sun 2/8/15 . he had piece of metal in right eye . doctor removed metal and polished cornea . he said doctor suspected the metal could have been in his eye lashes before getting into his eye on saturday
employee was fixing a vent bag using a scissor deck . using lever to raise scissor deck , something caught on the lever causing it to keep raising , thumb got pinched . seen at the emergency room and wound closed with stitches . released to restricted duty .
alleged incident was supposed to occur while employee was walking along the 1 west belt . he said he tripped over a large rock and sprained knee ; cause of injury -- unawareness . miner proficiency   a factor ; compliance with rules , protective equipment , mining equipment/systems not factors .
employee was on top of a rail car . lifted the mat so they can move the car .
employee was pulling a 6 ' roof bolt out of a stack of roof bolts . in the process he strained his right shoulder .
alimak raise , bolting after blasting round - just got collared when rock size of baseball came down hitting between glove and arm guard .
employee was checking center line when a rock fell from overhead striking him on the head and shoulder . he went to the local emergency room where he was examined , x-rayed and given a full return to work release . employee continued to experience pain and became a lost time as of july 13 , 2004 .
the discharge screen deck on number 6 tertiary crusher caught on fire during a plant start up after a scheduled fine crusher shutdown . after an initial attempt to put out the fire , the local fire department was called and the fire was out by 5:30 pm . no injuries were sustained .
the employee reported lower back pain attributed to many years of operating equipment and jacklegs . the case was under review for workman's compensation through the rest of 2005. on january 16 , 2006 the company received documentation that the case had been accepted as an occupational illness .
the employee was installing a new motor control center panel . he and his work partners were lifting the panel into place when it slipped and struck him just above his hair line . he was taken to the emergency room where he received several stitches to close the cut .
while loading three new conveyor onto a semi trailer the 3rd conveyor swayed and bumped the two loaded conveyor 50 ' causing them both to slide off the semitrailer . employee , other , and another were standing on the catwalks of the first two conveyor that were loaded . as the conveyors fell the employee fell with them , striking employee and other in the chest area and bruising another arm .
broken side cutter was removed from demag bucket with welding truck crane . hook-on cable got welded in point sheave . welding partner lowered winch causing slack on the reel . employee yanked on broken piece which came down on his finger because of slack .
while cutting and grinding plates for a grizzly a metal flake became airborne and enter the left eye of our employee , requiring medical treatment to remove . the injury left no permanent impairment to the eye and employee returned to work after one days absence .
employee stated that he was in the process of roof bolting the face of the number 2 entry on the number 1 unit . while pulling the drill steels back out of the roof , one of the drill steel sections stayed in the mine roof . while the employee was placing drill steel sections in the roof bolter's tray , the steel that had stayed in the roof fell out striking the employee's finger on his left hand .
this report is being completed in protest as the alleged accident did no occur on mine property . this report is only being completed to avoid a citation . the injured took a work statement to the foreman's home . lester did not come to the mine site . no witnesses can be found . per call , employee was getting out of scoop , slipped and hurt back
injured party was walking on a belt when he slipped and fell backwards striking his left shoulder . did not miss any work until 1/24/07 . this accident happened on 10/23/06 . the doctor did not do anything to him and he did not miss any work . missed his 1st day of work on 1/24/07 .
employee was cleaning preheater riser duct . some of the material blew back , hit employee's face shield , and got under the collar of employee's personal protective equipment , causing a burn on employee's collar bone . first aid was administered , employee was taken to other medical practitioners for medical evaluation , where employee was giving a prescription for silvadene and advice to keep wound clean dry and covered - returned to regular duty . medical treatment .
employee was trying to pry a rock out of the `` jaw '' when another rock rolled and hit employee's left wrist .
roof fall at number 2 entry , cross-cut number 89 on the 3-left headgate . 8 ' tr bolts with 12 ' cable bolts in intersection . fall did not cause injury , property damage , affect ventilation , or impede travel .
roof fall in number 5 entry 1 cross-cut inby spad # 7150. fall was 20 ' x 20 ' x 48 '' . no injuries occurred .
employee was swinging a 12 pound hammer to remove the main shaft from a water pump when he received a partial tear of his right biceps tendon .
employee went to the iron tank area to see why dust was leaking to the ground . he noticed a hole in the screw housing where a pipe had fallen off . screw grabbed and turned the belt . employee's thumb got pinched between the guard and screw cover .
employee was changing cutting bits on a piece of equipment . he was using an 8 lb hammer to release the retaining pin . a metal fragment chipped off the pin and struck his low abdomen . he was taken to a clinic and the fragment was partially removed . the remaining portion was left in place due to doctor's recommendation .
roof fall in the intersection of number 6 entry , one cross-cut out by spad # 8205. fall was 50' x 5' x 18 ' . no injuries or equipment involved .
employee had a chemical burn on his right foot from wearing boots that had holes and walking through water near the construction of a cement paste wall . he continued to work for several hours before seeking first aid treatment on site . on 11/30/2004 the company received a medical bill for additional treatment for the foot - debridement on 10/28/04 .
member was walking along number 14 belt and bent down to cross under a water line , slipped and fell on an old piece of conveyor belt , causing a laceration to his knee . he went to williamson memorial hospital emergency room where he received stitches and a full release to return to work .
employee was climbing into the cab of a flat bed truck when his foot slipped off the step . employee slipped to ground landing on both feet . employee complained of pain in his lower back .
received a hearing loss diagnosis from workers compensation on 1/8/2014 . employee was diagnosed with hearing loss on 12/23/2013 . employee last worked on 4/30/2013 and is no longer with the company . accident date of 4/30/2013 is to accommodate online reporting per mine safety and health administration ( denver ) instructions .
employee was walking when he stepped on a hose causing him to fall backwards . employee got up experiencing pain in his left knee . employee placed on restricted duty .
employee was operating a metabo grinder cutting paddles off of a drag chain in the fab shop area . the drag chain shifted on the table causing the blade on the metabo to bind and kickback . when the metabo kicked back it struck the top of the employees left hand . the blade cut through the employees glove and into his hand .
while walking the associate stepped in the area where conveyor catwalk and the stairway to conveyor and the crusher platform meet . this is an area with a gap where two pieces of grip strut are side by side with one at a downward angle and the upward stairway . employee said that he apparently had stepped the area and heard his right knee pop .
employee was installing a 6 ' resin bolt . the bolt started bending , so he started rotating the bolt as he pushed it up . the plate started spinning and struck him on the right   forearm .
743ht driver passed a blade , stayed near the windrow , saw the 716ht approaching , so stopped . 716ht driver thought there was room between the 743 and blade to continue , but grazed the rock deflectors . 743 stated he was fine , went to the emergency room after shift , given a prescription muscle relaxer , off work until clears drug and alcohol test .
employee was putting the orifice plate back on pump using air impact . he was holding the nut with his left hand , activated air impact . the nut had a burr on it and when impact was activated the burr cut through employee's glove into the palm of hand causing laceration .
stepped off terex truck -- landed on piece of shale and ankle popped out .
employee was riding mantrip. hit dips in track. jarring caused injury .
employee was installing liners in a transfer chute , another person was handing him the plates from outside with restricted space and standing room . he twisted his back while handling a plate . employee was injured on 29th . he didn't go to doctor till 9/3/03 and put on restricted duty .
while employee was working in the maintenance shop , he went down to one knee , grasped a piece of steel approximately   40 to 50 pounds in weight to lift it to a saw horse . in doing so , he felt a pinch in his groin . employee waived medical attention until the end of his shift two days later on december 29 , 2000 .
the employee was removing snow with the front end loader . the corner of the bucket caught a pot hole and jerked the cab of the loader to the right . operator hit his head on the side window of the cab and required 8 stitches to close the cut . operator was wearing his seatbelt at the time of the incident .
shoulder strained while attempting to clear jam in cone . saw doctor on 4-7-03. limited lifting with left arm for 7 days .
a contractor was mounting a new steel chute on a conveyor head section . the chute was pried free and shot up in the air which pinched the contractors left hand . he had 3 stitches in one finger and 2 stitches on the in the other .
i was lifting a 60 lb . roller for a converger to get it out of way . i must of been twisting as lifting . back popped and i fell to the ground . could not get up for a couple minutes , but when i did get up , the pain was bad and i could not walk very well .
the employee experienced lower back pain in the performance of reg duties as a trackman medical records show a degenerative disc changes of the back at l3 , l4 and l5 employee did not start losing time until 10/20/00
employee stated that he was installing a roof bolt in uneven top and as he placed a half header between the half header on the roof bolt and the mine roof his middle on his right hand was caught   between the half header and the mine roof .
employee was working on low head at wet grinding plant when he cut his right thumb above the last knuckle and below tip of thumb .
employee was installing a new cutting edge on the motor grader . he and a coworker had the cutting edge suspended with a bar on each end , the edge slipped off employee's bar while changing hand positions and landed on his foot . the mow board was blocked .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred at cross-cut 3 on the 8th 48 travelway , entry # 6. we are not cleaning this fall up , we stepped the travelway over . the area that fell was approximately 20 ' x 20 ' and was bolted with 72 '' tension rebar roof bolts . the affected area was re-supported with 84 '' bolts , brow bars , cribs , props and timbers .
employee was lifting 100 lb bags and his right forearm started hurting . doctor said his muscle was turning because it is a new job .
employee was setting the feeder when rock fell from the roof and hit his right hand .
employee pulled his truck forward from the primary dump hopper to clear rock from feeder . another employee saw him pull out and lost him in his mirror , assumed he turned right back into the pit and proceeded to back up to the hopper , when he struck the left front of employee's truck . employee was climbing down the ladder at the time , noticed the other employee backing up and jumped off out to the way .
while unloading a 50 pound bag of rockdust the employee felt pressure on the right side his abdomen which turned out to be a hernia . the employee had surgery to correct the hernia on 8-20-10. this did not become a lost time accident until 8-20-10 .
employee dropped the boom so he could get gas hole steels out . when the boom dropped , it swung toward employee and caught his hand between the boom and the steels . the employee was transported to the emergency room and received three stitches .
field service technician had air hose running from truck to excavator . when walking back to his truck , he tripped over air hose and caught himself on the excavator's track . this resulted in the technician fracturing his right wrist .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 3 entry near spad # 0271. there are no active faces in this mine , transfer of coal only . size of fall was approximately   40' long x 20' wide x 8' high . area will be breakered   off and timbered and will not be rehabilitated .
employee was walking backwards carrying a small piece of steel plate . he tripped and fell backwards dropping the steel on his leg , bruising it . he was temporarily assigned to duties which did not require   extensive walking .
employee was greasing rollers on dragline with an air actuated grease gun . hose developed pin hole and grease filled his glove and ( left ) thumb because of extreme pressure . employee had surgery to remove grease from around bone . he is off work presently .
something fell into some dust around employee sending dust into the air . steel dust got into employee's eye . he was not wearing safety glasses . missed only 1 day as suggested by doctor .
employee was fueling dozer at end of the day . he was walking backward and stepped on groove ( indentation ) left in ground from dozer tracks . he felt pain in his ankle . ankle began to swell .
employee using 6 ' long bar to unlock and open railroad cars aggregate material . employee placed steel bar in doors lock to open door . employee did not immediately open door , but instead walked backwards with the backing train . employee had his right hand positioned over the flat end of the bar . the employee's right hand became wedged between the steel bars and an adjacent steel column .
employee was handling a piece of sheet metal when it slipped through his hands and lacerated left forearm .
operator let jack down on his foot , roofbolter stab jack
miner was dragging a razor blade knife cutting a belt , knife slipped and went into left leg about 5 inches above the knee and and cut leg . 10 stitches were incurred , back to work , no lost time .
employee strained his left shoulder while working on the number 2 finish separator . employee initially declined medical attention , but when the shoulder pain did not go away he went to see his doctor . this injury became reportable on 11/10/2010 when the doctor diagnosed the injury as a torn rotator cuff . the employee was placed on restricted duty . no time lost to date .
employee had just idled up the generator when he turned around and felt a sharp pain in his upper back . he did not fall , trip , or anything else he just turned around .
employee was bagging talc , the bag slipped as he reached for it , twisting his left wrist . he didn't tell us until 2-24-00. sent him to the doctor , the doctor put a wrist band on it and he returned   to work .
employee put a metal bar against the a handrail and put the other end on a brace under the expanded metal . he put his hand on the handrail the metal slipped off the brace and the top of the bar smashed the employee right ring finger .
a loose connection on a transformer caused a power failure to the plant air compressor which caused exhaust valves to close on the pyro main baghouse which allowed hot gases to reach the dryer feed belts and started a fire . the mobile fire dept was called and they put the fire out in less than an hour . valves will be installed to prevent future like incidents
unintentional roof fall occurred on the main north track at 20 cross-cut . the fall was 73 ' wide x 28 ' long x 8 ' high . into the cross-cuts . fall occurred due to the deterioration of the immediate roof .
employee walking north along the west side of the main building towards the maintenance shop . he reached the shop door and turned right through the open roll-up door . a genie aerial lift had been left parked just inside the doorway with the boom lowered . the employee struck the edge of the boom with the bridge of his nose . incident reported to the mine foreman , first aid was administered .
employee was beating on b-1 circulating valve with a maul attempting to open it . when he felt a pain in his left shoulder area . he was sent to river parishes hospital to be checked , and was advised that he had sprained his shoulder .
conveyor had been knocked off stand by employee ; employee was resetting conveyor onto stand when chain slipped pinching 1st and 2nd fingers between conveyor and stand .
while cutting steel cable on ground , piece of cable came loose and struck employee on his lower lip . causing laceration to his lip .
bad top was timbered off prior to rock fall 2 breaks inby spad number 687 .
employee tripped on water line falling and landing on left knee . he continued to work that shift on thursday   8-30-01` . pain and swelling persisted and he was taken to doctor who diagnosed with torn blood vessels and advised restricted duty until 9-6-01 .
at 32 cross-cut   in return roof fell about 6' high , 20' long and 20' wide . no one was injured and no equipment was caught . moved stopping line over and breakered it off . we are not going to clean roof fall   up . ( air is traveling in right direction . )
while changing troughing rollers on a conveyor , employee reported a sudden onset of lower back pain that radiated down his right leg . he was evaluated by a physician and taken off of work .
employee was walking in storage yard when he stepped on soft material and twisted his left ankle .
employee was conducting routine daily walk-around inspection of the primary crusher plant and conveyors . supervisor came to check on employee and told him to take a break based on his appearance . employee then complained of chest and arm pains . 911 was called and employee was transported to hospital where he passed away later that night .
tightening bolts with impact gun and socket , slipped and struck employee in mouth .
the employee was carrying plank 14 ' x 10 '' x 3 '' he slip on the wet , muddy and uneven bottom , straining his left shoulder and back .
employee was holding miner cable with left hand making cut with right hand away from body , razor knife slipped cutting employee on left hand , received stitches at rainelle medical   center
employee stated : helping at new longwall face setup . when lifting an emulsion hose up to the hanger , experienced a possible strain to his shoulder .
at 1:35 am the kuhntown elevator stopped operating . an employee was on the elevator from 1:35 until 3:10 am the door switch was broken .
injury occurred while contract labor was watching trailing cable on a shuttle car . the operator of the shuttle car reeled the cable and caught the leg of the injured took his feet our from under him he landed striking the back of head . personal protective equipment was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
employee was pulling cable with hoist while working at the shorthead crusher . while pulling the cable , employee states he felt a `` twinge '' in his back .
employee had stopped at tr-06 to fuel and lube . when he checked the radiator fluid level he moved the cap to the first click and nothing happened . when he moved the cap to the second click the cap blew   off and sprayed antifreeze on his right hand causing a second degree burn .
employee was drilling a face round with a jack-leg machine . when employee finished drilling a blast hole in the burn , he started pulling the drill steel out of the hole and the steel puller bounced up allowing the drill steel to come out of the drill causing employee to lose his balance and he fell backwards on his shoulder .
employee was working on the engine swing on truck 562. as he was walking up the stairs at the front of the truck , the air conditioner condenser core bracket was sticking out in the pathway , as he was walking up the bracket cut through his clothes cutting his right shoulder blade . after calling triage nurse , employee was taken to the morenci peritoneal dialysis clinic .
employee was attempting to start a metal lathe . once the lathe was started the employee realized that it was operating at too high of speed and was reaching down to turn of the lathe . as he reached down he was struck by a piece of round stock in the metal lathe on the hard hat . this caused the headgear from his hardhat to cut his right ear .
mechanic inspecting 9028 loader for engine coolant leak . near left side of engine close to engine fan when a particle was blown into employee's right eye . became worse as the shift progressed ; was washed out by first responders but found it necessary to send employee to clinic . foreign body washed out , prescription medicine dispensed .
employee was climbing up number 52 elevator on cooling side of silos with an mine safety and health administration inspector . when he got to the top he felt his left butt cheek start to hurt . turned out to be a pulled muscle .
employee was lifting a belt roller when he felt a pain in his lower back and left leg . he has continued to work up until may 11 , 2004 when he stated that the pain in his leg had gotten worse .
employee reported : he and coworker were disassembling belt structure from old number   3 belt entry . the coworker had removed his end . when the victim was attempting to loosen the other end . coworker dropped his end , structure rail moved suddenly catching victim's finger tip against belt structure stand . extent of injury was simple fracture to tip of right ring finger
employee was washing tail pulley of belt . he was positioned below the jaw crusher below and protective deck . a rock vibrated through an opening below the protective deck , falling and hitting the employee .
employee was tightening base bolts on motor installation . was under drive coupler gear box . employee rose up and struck back on coupler and grease fitting .
while climbing over a rail to access a work platform , employee lost his footing and landed scissor style on the top rail , injuring his groin area .
there were 2 crews of 2 welding the ring on the shell at the same time . the affected employee was wearing a welding powered air purifying respirator while employee was welding , but had the shield up while employee did the fitting work . as employee fitted the iron , the other crew continued to weld about 6 feet to the left . on june 10th employee woke up with eye irritation . employee sought medical attention and was suffering from welding flash .
employee was enlarging pilot hole in a guard he was building with a electric drill when bit caught and forced drill from his hand . the drill spun around and the handle struck his right wrist . he broke his 4th metatarsal   bone in his right wrist .
employee was removing wear strips on a loader bucket . wrench slipped cutting left hand , he received 5 stitches .
employee cut the tip of his left thumb while cutting vacuum hose with a utility knife .
root cause : it was determined that this was a pre-existing health issue and not a work related issue . employee had a artery blockage . employee did not pass away on project site . employee passed away at the hospital . mine safety and health administration was notified immediately on november 6 , 2014 .
employee was trying to get bearing out of old shaker screen ( not in use ) . employee was using a hammer and chisel , he hit the chisel with hammer , the chisel flew up and struck the employee in the chin causing a laceration .
employee was getting out of his truck . when he was going down the ladder , he bumped his knee . by the end of the day he was unable to use the clutch in his truck . employee has missed work since 7/15/02 .
employee became fatigued using his right hand to cut strips in lagging on pulley . switched to his left hand and shortly after slipped and poked himself in the left thigh just above the knee . he sustained a 3/8 '' cut that was managed with first aid . after his shift he went to the doctor for a tetanus shot and was convinced that he need stitches to prevent infection . reportable injury .
we were hoisting with one drum in operation as we were providing maintenance to our second drum and as a measure of caution we placed a courtesy call to mine safety and health administration to advise them .
employee didn't miss any time away from work . not aware of injury until mri was done on 10/25 . employee was supervising roof bolting activity . told bolter operator to back out of area because he didn't like the ground conditions . piece of rock approximately   4 to 5 ft broke off striking employee on head , right shoulder and lower back knocking him to ground .
kiln stopped due to kiln feed programmable logic controller failure . calciner pressure became positive with id fan stoppage . alternative solid fuels in the injection screw started to smolder . due to programmable logic controller failure , fire protection system was not available to stop smoldering . smoke observed in preheater from ground level and fire department called . no one was injured as a result of the fire .
employee alleged repetitive motion while working as load , haul dump operator . employee had surgery to repair on 3-11-03 .
employee was using a c-clamp to press a wear plate against the blade of a d9 dozer . the clamp had a lot of pressure on it - when he reached up to release the clamp it popped off . then he jerked his head out of the way , his hard hat came off and the clamp hit him on top of the head .
employee complains of sore wrists from working in maintenance . it was determined on 5-2-03 that his diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome is occupationally related .
there was a roof fall measuring 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high .
employee was holding one side of the new idler frame . other was using his foot to push the other side into place so it could be bolted down . as other pushed , the entire frame slid and caught employee's   hand   between the idler frame and the conveyor frame .
employee slipped off of side of 350 payhauler while attempting to replenish brake fluid . employee fell backwards twisting right knee in tailgate opening structure employee pulled ligaments in knee and lower right   leg was x rayed at hospital the knee was hyperextended .
employee was maintain a cat 789b end-dump , when he attempted to lift a 50 lb cylinder from a crouched position . in doing so , he strained a muscle in the middle portion of his back . he was diagnosed at the hospital .
employee was helping change blow bars on crusher plant . the blow bar slipped and hit his index finger on his left hand . he was sent to company doctor immediately .
employee was working on overhead doors in the pit service bldg . the job required a lot of lifting and turning . after working on this job for 2 weeks he complained of pain in his elbows . he was evaluated   by a doctor on 5/1/01 it was determined to be occupationally related .
employee was hanging up a harness when a particle fell into his left eye .
the weather before the start of the employee shift was humid and there had been previous heavy rains . the employee was descending on a flight of stairs . the employee slipped causing the employee to fall down the steps . the employee had bruising of the right   hip and right   forearm .
employee was climbing back onto 980-g loader , when he slipped and strained his back .
employee reported : the victim was working along the longwall face line , he was attempting to program a shield for advancement , his left hand was on the face lin handrail at the time . a piece of draw rock fell from between shields striking his hand resulting in a fracture to the metacarpal bone of the hand .
there was no injury . mine safety and health administration contacted at 7:30 am and inspector performed an investigation along with state inspector . the company corporate engineer was also involved in the investigation . the number 2 co al fan exploded throwing debris 15 ft from the housing . fan itself remained intact but the housing was damaged beyond repair . full investigation is taking place and full report will go to mine safety and health administration
unintentional roof fall . 50 ' x 50 ' x 8 ' . number 4 belt entry . spad number 278 1200 feet outby face . 1 left section .
employee was operating his shuttle car when a piece of rock fell and struck his hard hat/shoulder and forearm
the employee was spreading rockdust from the rockdust bag with one hand , while holding the bag of rockdust with the other hand . he stated that he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . he left work at that time , driving himself home , he went to his doctor the next day .
employee was building a kennedy stopping and while he was holding the kennedy panel , the top slid down and the sharp edges , cut the end of his finger . he required 3 stitches .
employee stated he was removing a pipe on the clean up pump . when putting it back together , he smashed his finger between the motor guard and the pipe .
employee was debelting when he turned around and fell down on his right   arm .
employee strained right shoulder and lower back pushing a 4 wheel cart and using a come-along to move a 250 fk   compressor . the compressor weighs approximately 400 lbs . he was sent for medical evaluation , and shortly physical therapy 3-1-04 .
employee was unloading bag dust from one scoop to another and his right knee twisted causing pain . later in the shift he exited the scoop . while walking around the batteries , his foot got stuck between the side of the batteries and a rock that caused his knee to turn and pop . he sought medical attention and was diagnosed with a sprain/strain .
employee was pulling out fuel line hose to re-fuel mobile equipment . he had approximately   25 ' of hose out when it snagged on a loader bucket . employee attempted to flip hose and free it - in doing so felt a pull/strain in right shoulder . employee has been placed on restricted duty/rest for arm and has scheduled follow-up appointment   with physician   in 1 wk .
while trimming metal tail pulley safety guard with a torch , a small piece of molten metal fell into employee's right ear . he had appointment . with ear doctor on 6/26/06 and is scheduled for ear surgery on 7/18/06 for perforated ear drum . he went back to the doctor on 7/12/06 because of irritation and received antibiotic on 7/12/2006 .
employee was dragging a roller ( bottom ) and stepped in a hole twisting left knee . employee began missing work on 8/8/18 under doctor's care .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 north 1 mains , cross-cut number 17 , number 7 entry . that fall measures approximately 20 ' long , 18 ' wide and 5 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was walking beside the scoop . he stepped on a large piece of coal , fell backwards , and tried to brake his fall by reaching for the scoop . in doing so , he pulled his left pectoral muscle .
occupational illness from repetitive motion reported to management 4-3-02. received approval from workers compensation on 4-22-03 .
employee slipped while setting a pump and strained his left knee .
employee , a miner operator , was helping install a buggy anchor . after the anchor was installed , employee bent down to pick up a piece of key steel from the roof bolter drill boom . the center shuttle car took up slack on the cable one break inby , causing the anchor to strike employee in the chest . employee sustained a cracked sternum and is currently lost time .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 7 entry on the number 1 section at spad number 17553 on the active section . the fall measured 140 ' length x 19 ' width x 5 ' to 6 ' height . no personal injuries reported . ventilation was affected . passage of persons was not affected . all entries to fall have been breakered off . no equipment involved .
employee was changing anvils on turbo crusher . employee was hitting anvils with a two pound sledge hammer when a piece of metal struck upper lip . employee did not report incident to management until 10/18/11 . first treatment was basic first aid . employee sought medical treatment on 11/11/11 to have a removal of foreign material from upper lip . there was no lost time involved .
employee was measuring timber and the top timber fell on his ankle .
while attempting to reverse the rotation of an electrical motor , employee received flash burns to both eyes and minor burns to his right   wrist . employee opened what he believed to be the correct circuit breaker . however , the wrong circuit breaker was in fact opened thus the power was not shut off to the motor . he was using a pair of needle nose plyers to move the wires , explosion occurred .
pins in cat 980 g loader broke causing the seat to slip back , causing the employee to strike his head against the rear glass .
employee was pulling on a 4 '' air hose when he felt pain in middle of his back on the left side .
employee was moving plywood off of equipment skid , when he stepped on a rock . this twisted his foot/ankle , causing a chip fracture in his left foot . employee reported on 9/22 and visited the doctor on 9/24 .
employee was pulling a piece of curtain off of the rib . when the curtain came off , the employee fell back landing on his left shoulder . the employee went for an x-ray - results were negative . employee's shoulder continued to hurt , he went for an mri - there was a positive result . employee is currently working restricted duty while doing physical therapy .
employee was coming down ladder of wash plant . it was dark and raining . needed a flashlight . left foot slipped off step rung . employee caught himself with his arms and then left sharp pain in back .
employee was pulling on cables and strained right shoulder . started missing work 4-24-2003 .
employee was cutting angle iron with a band saw . he attempted to trim the tip of the iron when the saw slipped and cut the finger .
employee claimed he sprained his left knee when going through mandoor at shaft bottom . he had an mri and went off work 5-23-00 .
at 8:00 am discovered a roof fall in the number 4 room of the 1st northeast batt between number 8 and number 9 cross-cut   . area was bolted with 3 ' fully grouted bolts , fall was 55 ' to 60 ' long 6-8 ' high 17 ' to 18 ' wide . the fall was caused by roof water .
a fall of the roof occurred on number 2 unit , number 5 entry and part of 5 right number 54 cross-cut   approximately   20' long x 35' wide x 9 ' thick . it appeared to be a hidden slip and was bolted with 6 '' point anchor glue pins .
employee was under the fuel tank using a wrench to tighten a bolt on the vertical swing shaft on the dragline . employee felt pain but did not report it until two days later . he thought he would be ok . but had to go to the doctor . he received a right shoulder rotator cuff-tendonitis . employee is restricted .
on 11-23-09 the main hoist suffered a control module failure at the number 29 mine . the hoist failed at 2:34pm and mine safety and health administration was notified at 2:37pm . the hoist was back in service at 5:00pm and mine safety and health administration was notified at 5:05pm .
employee states he was driving number 2 polaris 6x6 from pump number 3 to pump # 2. as he was starting down the hill he let off gas the electronic brake system locked up causing the atv to slide sideways . the front end hit a snowbank and started to roll . he jumped off catching himself with his right arm dislocating his shoulder .
employee was cutting a wire tie on the drill rod support with a knife and cut employee's thumb in the process . employee received 6 stitches .
while repairing pallet car wheels on a bench in the shop , the employee developed pain in his right shoulder . determined to be tendonitis and employee started physical therapy on 3-4-02 .
mechanic was attempting to repair a defective brake canister . he had loosen one of the bond clamps on the carter . the brake canister is spin loaded . it flew apart and the end cap struck the mechanic   on the knee causing injury .
employee was pulling at number 1 bagger . while doing a load the seat he was sitting in broke with him causing him to fall . he grabbed a bar attached to the bagger to pull himself onto the machine to keep from falling into the area below .
employee was being loaded and is unsure if the dipper or a rock hit the side of the right side of the bed of the truck .
employee was carrying a piece of metal 3' x 3 ' to a manbus , when he traveled under the stacker belt he felt pain in his back and left shoulder . started missing work on november 5 , 2002
employee was grinding on the left side top of the tub in the rail path area . the wind blew a filing into the eye . 3
employee , employed as a mechanic with bayer construction was cleaning a radiator on an excavator . he stepped from the excavator to the ground and rolled his ankle which resulted in a sprain . .
injured employee was assisting another with a roof bolt. injured employee was holding support employee was securing it with a bolt , he placed his right hand on the mast. once employee installed bolt he dropped the drill pot smashing injured employee's fingers in the mast. employee suffered an amputation of his right middle finger just below the second knuckle and an amputation of the right ring finger just above the nail bed .
employee was working on the splitter , he went to move a pebble off the top of a rock being cut , when the splitter teeth came down and smashed his finger . he lost the fingernail and received stitches .
employee was handling concrete blocks , stacking them on a pallet . he was reaching for a block that was on a lower level , as he was grabbing the block a block from the top level fell hitting him on both hands .
employee was retrieving a vacuum system from lbh2 baghouse . as he climbed the ladder to retrieve the equipment he felt pain in his right side . as he reached the bottom with the equipment the pain became extreme .
employee was assisting on rehanging tubing that had been knocked down . fell , twisting knee .
while changing out rollers employee was climbing back on to a catwalk and slipped hitting his right knee on a hand rail .
roof fall outby spad number 10876 approximately 75 ' long 6 ' high
dredge was down , employee was changing fittings , wrench slipped . hand was jammed between the bolt and fittings . employee jerked hand out cutting off tip of left index finger
employee was removing a large stone from the crate to place it on the table saw , when he felt a pain on the upper left side of his body .
an unintentional fall of the mine roof was discovered in the number 2 entry at number 71 cross-cut in the north west mains . the fall was approximately   7 to 8 ft high , 19 ft wide and approximately   400 feet long . the initial discovery of this fall revealed that draw rock has fallen out below the anchorage point of the roof bolts used in this area . the area was centered cribbed and dangered off .
victim was roof bolting in the projected at 2 room belt entry of 2nd right butt return side while installing a 42 '' roof bolt victim was pushing bolt into roof and the bolt bend he lower head of bolter attempted to straighten bolt and went to push bolt into roof and caught finger .
strain to lower arm requiring splint for 2 weeks . employee was lifting bags of anfo picking bags up off of the ledge . grabbing bags with employee's left hand to load the holes . noticed it about 6pm at home after work . couldn't get comfortable when employee tried to go to sleep . this morning employee couldn't pick up an orange . has a hard time opening employee's hand
a grass fire was discovered in the tall grass above 7 and 8 north pre-strip area . the fire was not extinguished within 30 minutes . a motor grader and mine firefighting equipment extinguished the grass fire . no miners , mine equipment or structures were ever at risk during this fire event .
rock fall in old north mains inby spad number 375 number 5 entry . 18' long 10' wide 20 '' thick .
employee states that employee was extending the tripod legs out on the transit and as employee extended the legs employee felt a pop in employee's elbows and forearm . employee was seen by doctor on 5/20/2018 and was given modified work duty .
injured was unplugging sample chute pipe at the head end of the high 7bl sample belt with a bar when he felt and heard a pop sound in his right rib cage
on number 1 panel off of number 5 belt near spad number 1261 a roof fall was found on 1/26/2006 . this area is traveled on a weekly exam . ( outby area ) no injuries occurred and ventilation was not disturbed . area dangered off and cribbed . fall was 20 ' long x 20' wide x 6 ' high .
two miners were replacing boards on floor number 6 west . employee was using a hand saw to cut a board . the board broke causing him to fall . he landed on his right side causing bruising and a torn acromioclavicular joint in his right shoulder .
face fall of number 5 entry b-12 , 3-right panel off of 1-right submain . due to geologic conditions associated with an abandoned channel deposit above the coal , the fall fell on the front of the mining machine as it opened up the intersection of the number 5 entry from 4-5 break 12 ( b-12 ) cross-cut . the fall proceeded outby over the miner from 5-4 entries into a 2-way intersection in number 4 .
a roof fall measuring 6' x 11' x 40 feet occurred one cross-cut out by spad number 659 number   7 return entry
employee was swinging boom of the continuous miner . he got his hand caught between the boom and the frame of the miner mashing his small and ring fingers on his left hand .
employee stated that while standing outside the specialty office a piece of hydrated lime blew into employee's eye . the employee was seen by an ophthalmologist and was treated with a prescription .
east 1 35 block number 5 heading 4-way intersection mobile mining unit 007 . 7' high x 20' wide x 20' long . type of support : 6' resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall .
tripped over wire and hurt left knee on the way to restroom
employee was drilling with a jackleg , the steel shanked . weight of drill pulled him into steel that shanked .
employee stepped over bench in the dry , tripped and fell , catching self with left arm . strained hand , wrist , elbow , shoulder . employee seen at clinic , diagnosed with a chip fracture and possible soft tissue tear , referred to orthopedist and placed on restricted duty .
employee strained his right shoulder tightening down belt structure , he was treated at the hospital emergency room and returned to work , upon the results of his mri test employee was excused from work by the doctor for 6 weeks .
attempting to remove wheel from rockduster . they had removed the axle pin from the wheel , jacked the duster up , placed wooden header boards under frame to provide clearance for the wheel to drop . rubrail bar was bent and there was pressure on the wheel which caused the wheel not to break loose . employee struck wheel with hammer which caused the frame to drop and rubrail to catch top of foot .
walked into a valve on classifier located approximately 6 ' from ground . employee struck right side of face on valve .
employee was standing next to pallet loaded with bagged product . forklift attempted to pick up pallet , pushed pallet 4 '' -6 '' and struck employee's lower right leg . injury was minor , no cut , just small bruise   , taken to doctor as a precaution .
east 4 , block 7 , number 3 entry , 4 way intersection , mobile mining unit 007 17 ft long by 40 ft wide by 16 ft high . type of support , cable bolts , 6 ft 3/4 resin bolts , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof   supports set around fall .
while hanging the miner cable , employee felt something `` pull '' along his right shoulder . on 8/6/04 he visited a local physician and was referred to a neurologist . after viewing the results of his exams , his physician referred employee to physical therapy . this report was delayed due to the lack of a definite diagnosis of the ailment .
man working at bottom of number 2 motor pit , standing on insulating plate . man was pulling up on 1 1/2 '' diameter cable . the combination of the man's weight and the force of pulling caused plate to break   . man broke through plate , fell straight down and scraped shin on insulating plate .
while hauling overburden on the back haul empty truck , hit dip in road and operator struck head on inside of cab , operator was rendered unconscious . there was not any physical damage reported   by the doctors . no damage was done to the equipment .
standing on a pallet of product next to the double stacked pallet and trying to straighten pallet that had tripped backward . employee was trying to put a strap around top pallet , and stepped off pallet and fell to floor .
roof fall was found at 9:10pm in the return on 1 left panel in 20 south mains at break # 41. fall started in the intersection of number 7 entry and went approximately 150 ' through the intersection in number 9 entry from spad 2245 to spad 1166. this area was mined around the first of june . area was dangered off .
employee ( 1 ) was handing a pressure washer gun from platform c to platform d when another employee ( 2 ) accidentally pressed the gun trigger while attempting to grasp the gun . the gun discharge and hit employee ( 1 ) in the left inner thigh causing a cut .
employee was hanging pipe and wiped sweat from forehead . he noticed eye irritation and started to rub his right eye . he imbedded a small rust particle in his eye from continuous rubbing . the particle   was removed .
employee was loading ram jack onto shearer , while repositioning the ram jack it shifted catching finger between the shearer and ram . lack of employee concentration was the cause of this incident . personal protective equipment was not a factor , mining equipment and mining systems was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
while prying pump screw with railroad bar , bar slipped and struck employee on right wrist .
employee was advancing the beltline on a continuous miner section . he had turned on the water in the water line . a fire hydrant was open and water was coming out . he went to shut off the valve and stepped   on the section feeder cable that was in the walkway . he twisted his knee . feeder cable in walkway caused the injury . no damage or impairment to operation . no other factors involved .
employee was drilling 2 pieces of metal when the drill bit broke . he fell forward and struck his hand on the bit .
employee was cleaning silt when a block of wood slipped , then flipped and hit the employee in the right ankle .
775d haul truck was driven off of elevated curve in quarry resulting in minor lacerations and bruising .
employee was using cutting torches cutting hanging roof bolts , bolt fell rupturing paint can , igniting paint can burning employee face .
lacerated right thigh , cutting belt on longwall , cut through belt and cut thigh .
employee was working on a portable plant . at the end of the day he told me that his back was sore , but he did not need to go to the doctor at that time . he went the next day . it was a back sprain .
a fall of the roof occurred in the submain west number 3 entry 1 cross-cut inby spad number 1629 at cross-cut number 54 number 1 unit supply road . approximately   60 ' long x 18' wide x 9 ' thick bolted with fully grouted 6 ' pins , and 9 ' point anchor   bolts .
was assisting in lifting-loading oxygen and acetylene   tanks , also pulling 6 '' water line for flange connections , pulled muscle in right shoulder .
his tailgate would not close . a mine employee of ours brought a loader to help close the tailgate . injured held a board on the tailgate so it wouldn't get scratched . when the loader made contact   with tailgate , injured's finger was pinched . he had a cut that required three stitches .
employee was cleaning a scooter and slipped and fell on the wet pad . employee landed on left hip , causing pain around the waist and into right groin . this incident became recordable on 11/13/08 due to referral to physical therapy and prescription meds .
employee was walking , slipped and fell onto a water line .
october 13,2005 employee was walking across shop floor and felt something snap in his left knee . he was not able to see a doctor until 10/17/2005 .
we were doing a job at brenda kay sand llc , employee and coworker were attempting to move a piece of grated steel that had been stacked on top of another . as employee lifted end up in order to place spud wrench , the sheet moved towards employee . doing so trapped finger between the sheets and caused a tip amputation of the left middle finger .
greasing zerk on top of sand screw . slipped and bruised left shoulder and left ribs . broke tip of thumb .
the employee was diagnosed with noise induced hearing loss . 10.27 % permanent partial disability was awarded . loveridge was notified on september 20 , 2007 .
employee was raising the lid on a set of batteries for a remote control to perform maintenance work . the prop did not engage the hole to hold lid open . lid fell striking her right arm . sutures required .
injured maintenance mechanic and coworker were installing samplepoints in metal pipe . injured held cut pipe in one hand and a light in the other hand . the pipe section was heavier than he expected   , and it moved his wrist against a sharp edge , lacerating it and requiring four ( 4 ) sutures . he was wearing a long sleeve shirt , but no gloves , however the injury was above the cuff line
employee is a shuttle car operator . he got off his car to hang up continuous miner cable . when he bent over to pick up the cable , he felt a sharp pain in his stomach and groin area . he continued   to work until 2-3-04. his last shift worked was 2-2-04. he is to have surgery to repair the hernia .
while contractor was tying down tires on the bed of a semi-truck , a strong gust of air from a storm blew him off the trailer . he fell approximately 4 ' , landing on his left arm .
had rockfall on number 4 unit belt line at cross-cut # 5- 40' x 7' x 20 ' .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 2 entry on number 9 belt panel at spad 4402. fall measured 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' thick . no equipment or injuries . roof fall did not affect ventilation and/or passage of persons . the fall will not be rehabilitated . area was developed 3/2010 . federal and state agencies notified immediately . there is no active section at this operation at this time .
roof fall in b-panel main number 0 entry . break 63 at spad 763. the fall measured 9 ' high x 18 ' wide by 60 ' long . the adjacent area was inspected along with the fallen area .
employee was walking the slope belt using the 2 '' water line for a hand rail . employee got his left middle finger caught between the old 2 '' water line and the good 2 '' metal water line .
grassey creek number   2 derail - when employee reached up to throw derail paddle he felt pain in his right shoulder .
was filling a can of water out of fire tap to plaster stopping when a piece of rock 124 '' by 16 '' by 4 '' slid off screen and struck him on right shoulder and neck and knocked down water line .
climbing out of front end loader , employee missed 2nd stair and fell catching himself with right hand pulling right shoulder .
employee was in the process of dismounting the pc300 , when he placed his foot on the ground . he stepped on a lump of kaolin , when the lump rolled , he twisted his knee .
unknown date and time there was a roof fall measuring approximately 40' long x 20 ' wide at break 24 on 1 west mains .
on 4/5/18 employee stated when employee stepped out of loader employee felt pain in left knee . employee stated employee did not slip or fall just pain . employee was examined by site medic and cleared to continue work . on 4/6 employee's 1st day off employee's knee was still bothering employee , so employee sought further medical care on employee's own were employee received restrictions .
while plumbing a new lift , he was moving pipe into position and slipped on the ice . he continued working that day , has no time lost , but has seen a doctor and will schedule an mri . he has been released to restricted/modified duty from 1/9/15 to 2/9/15 ; lifting , climbing , reaching . he can perform his duties as mine superintendent in full capacity without doing these things .
employee was exiting drill when his foot slipped , felt pain in right shoulder . doctor prescribed pain medication .
employee states he was compacting dirt with a compactor and stepped on a loose rock , twisting his right ankle and spraining his muscle .
employee was trimming the skirt on the conveyer and the utility knife slipped and he cut his finger . it required 11 stitches .
employee was replacing o ring on the pit shovel . wheile working on this the employee reached over to get a hydraulic hose when he strained his left shoulder
employee was raising pump suction line and crank spun around and struck employee on the palm side of left hand .
the individual was loading crib blocks in the scoop bucket when he caught his left ring finger between the crib block and the scoop bucket . the individual is a contract employee ( bates contracting ) this is a medical treatment only . there were no lost time or restricted work days .
employee was separating plies on a piece of conveyor belt , when his olfa knife slipped cutting his left forearm .
on wednesday , august 29th sometime around 2:00 pm a car was found in the main lobe of thornton quarry . upon investigation the deceased driver was observed inside the vehicle . it appears from preliminary findings that this incident is a suicide . the car entered the quarry from williams street landing 150 feet below . the local police are conducting an investigation .
employee received first aid treatment after small cut on finger . employee was prescribed an antibiotic and given limited use of right hand work restrictions .
employee was climbing a ladder when a feed tube fell and hit him
employee was helping install a cutting edge on the motor grader . employee right hand index finger and ring finger was pinched between the cutting edge and the mold board . stitches were required .
employee attempted to remove full oil drum from discharge end of mill # 11. the edge of the drum was placed on the lip of the bobcat and when employee tried to lift the drum more it fell over and landed on his left foot .
employee attempted to lift a flip gate on the truck dock number 7 that had become hung up at the edge , but when the flip gate was released , it sprung up and back down on the employee's left hand causing a fracture   to his first and second fingers .
miner was helping a mechanic finish repairs on a genset . he was installing the raincap on the exhaust stack . he was pushing down and wiggling the cap and the cap slipped on suddenly pinching the miners finger ( middle ) cutting the tip of it off .
putting block under loader bucket in shop . loader was turned off and bucket dropped down on block and bruised the top of right foot on employee . told employee we would take employee to get it x-rayed . employee said would ice it tonight and let company know how it is in the morning .
an area of roof fall fell in the number 8 entry intake at spad number 803 ( outby ) area was developed in 3-5-02. area was bolted with 4 ' x 6 ' fully grouted bolts . roof was wet laminated slate . fall is 50 ' long , 18 ' wide , 3 to 5 ft thick . fall will not be moved . stopping line will be moved over establishing escapeway .
employee was attempting to place a roof mat onto the atrs of the roof bolter and stepped too far , and as he stepped off of the cat walk of the roof bolter , he caught himself with outstretched arm on top of the canopy and atrs frame work resulting in a strain of the left rotator cuff .
an unplanned roof fall has occurred , above permanent anchorage , on the 11 north miner section . this fall exists in the number 4 belt entry , one cross-cut outby spad number 566 and measures approximately 50' x 20 '' x 10 ' high .
installing pigtails employee reached for a stick of glue and accidentally turned up pressure switch on causing drill to raise pinching employee's hand between monorail . had 4 stitches to 1 finger on left hand   .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the 3rd west headgate number 3 entry 12,380 west . the fall was 10 ' long x 19 ' wide x 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall   was mined through by 9:00 pm ( not blocked )
employee was helping move miner when it seesawed on uneven bottom . he caught his right arm between roof and miner . he started missing work on february 2 for surgery .
employee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome of the left and right wrist . started missing work on 12/2/2009 due to surgery .
a roof fall was found during the pre-shift examination at 2115 on the 003 section belt line at number 16 cross-cut . the fall was approximately 20' x 80 ' x 12 ' high . this area had been bolted with 5 ' high tech   roof bolts .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at station 14+75 entry number 4 on the 4e travelway . the fall did not affect ventilation , passage of men or cause personal injury . the fall measured 25 feet x 22 feet x 7 feet .
injured employee and another employee were removing the steels from a fast 65 hole . the bottom steel didn't come loose and when it turned the wrench hit injured employee in the left ankle .
an employee moving a set of rail cars to a spur track , stepped off of a train car from the built in ladder designed for the car and felt a pain in ankle . employee did break both the bones in lower leg . the contributing factors included housekeeping on the surface that employee was stepping down onto and failure to complete a pre-job hazard analysis .
employee was pulling grease hose ( from a service truck ) across frozen ground conditions . the hose hung up on a piece of frozen ground which caused unexpected force and twisting motion to the employee   when the length of hose suddenly tightened . he continued working until 2-26-01. at that time he was unable to work due to back pain .
the injured employee was releasing hand brakes and bleeding the air from a string of rail cars in preparation to load the next car . the employee was between the house track and side track when he slipped and fell injuring his left arm , elbow , side ( torso ) and hip .
employee was cleaning and organizing work in the shop when he sprained his right thumb on a heavy bearing .
employee fell against hand rail and cut chin .
employee was bolting top in number 1 heading when a piece of draw rock fell and struck employee's left arm , employee had 10 stitches in left arm .
employee alleges that he stepped down off water truck and landed on a rock twisting his ankle .
injured was installing a battery in a vacuum truck when he felt a sharp pain in his back . reportable because of lost time accident beginning 5/10/04 . injured could no longer perform job functions and physician authorized time off .
employee was in the process of repairing a belt splice . when the belt was placed into the flexco 840 belt cutting device , the blade was not in the fully retracted position , which exposed the cutting blade . employee's hand slipped and came into contact with the cutting blade , causing a laceration at the pinky joint .
the employee had his left hand at the upper portion of the drill steel while the drill steel was inserted into the drill pod . at the same time , he turned on the rotation on the drill pod and the drill steel caught a worn area on his glove and wrapped the glove around the drill steel . this caused his fingers to wrap around the drill steel , causing the injury .
employee was stepping off a uniloader . he had placed his left foot on the step and while bringing his right foot forward the toe of his boot caught on the frame causing him to fall forward . he attempted to jump clear , but struck his right knee on the loader bucket .
when injured backed up towards berm at waste dump area ; truck went through berm or ground gave way causing truck to go into abandoned quarry . injured did not go to the doctor until 6/25/03 . reportable   from standpoint of modified duty only . no lost time as of present date .
member was using a pocket knife to cut a rag when he accidentally cut his middle finger on his left hand .
the main portal elevator experienced problems with the automatic doors at 2:55 pm . troubleshooting revealed the door linkage was bent and had to be straightened . after repairing and putting back   into service more problems were experienced with the lower door switch . repairs were made and the elevator placed back into service at 4:55pm
employee was helping another man lift 120 lb keg of grease and the keg slipped pinching right thumb between keg and steel beam .
the main hoist went down at 10:45 am with a broken toe on the shaft guides . the shoe was replaced and the hoist was operational 1:55 pm .
while tramming ram car he ran over a piece of rock on the mine floor causing him to be thrown up in the operator's compartment . he landed on his self rescuer causing a contusion to lower back .
employee was moving a wheelbarrow loaded with material from underneath a belt on the raw belt floor when he felt a pain in his lower back , followed with a tingling in his feet .
clearing a chute full of rock with a bar , he hit the rock which gave way and crushed finger between the bar and chute .
a power failure at 06:42 caused the main hoist to trip out . the cager was in the cage at the time . hoist was brought up on generators by 07:13 no injury to the cager . the hoist was brought back into full service by 8:28am once the power was restored to site .
injured was installing   o   ring in a cylinder hose when the torque from the hose threw his right hand into the fan causing laceration .
employee along with three other employees were lifting a piece of metal in place to serve as a guard for a beltline .
a piece of steel got stuck in the cone crusher employee and other were using a long burning rod to burn the steel out of the crusher . once the steel was removed he placed the burning rod into a buck et of water to coal . the water splashed into employee's face and he thinks that's   when the debris entered his eye .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 1 entry , left return at spad # 1031. the fall measured approximately   40 feet x 19 feet x 6 feet . the area was developed on 6/1/09 . no injuries were reported .
employee was pulling cable , making power move on section . he reinjured his left arm that he originally hurt on 7/30/01 but did not report or go to doctor .
while using a heavy steel bar to close sides on hopper cars , employee felt left shoulder pain .
e-butt rooms on left side ; fall occurred at face area of an old set-up . area was abandoned 9 months . 3 cross-cuts long , 20 ' wide in 3-room set of butt .
employee was loading a telehandler on a roll back when it slipped off jolting the employee in the cab . this resulted in small fracture to employee's upper shoulder .
employee was rolling a tractor tire out from machine with another employee and the injured employee was walking back and tripped over a rock pile and landed on the rock pile . this was an underground mine and the only light was the light on the helmets .
the injured was struck on the arm by a rock that fell from the mine roof between the atrs and the last row of bolts .
employee was stepping up onto a continuous miner , when he lost his balance and fell backwards , landing on a section foreman's walking stick . diagnosed with a fractured coccyx ( tailbone ) and right axilla abrasions .
while repairing lights on cat haul truck , employee was cutting into an old wiring splice . as he cut through insulation with knife , knife slipped and cut hand . laceration to left hand requiring 4 sutures   .
cat 980f loader control's adjustment jammed and operator unable to adjust for neutral positioning during equipment's operation . several days of operation resulting in muscular repetitive motion injury to soft tissue , posterior of left shoulder . injured employee tardy in prompt reporting to management .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 4 entry on the track at the number 3 drive in the into the far on one of the intake entries for the 002 section the fall was approximately 40 ft long x 20 ft wide x 6 ft high . the roof fall was cleaned top and resupported with 7 '' x 9 '' over problem .
while emptying a wheel barrow , employee felt extreme pain in his lower back .
employee was cleaning battery carousels with dysol ii solvent cleaner , employee was exposed to vapors and was found unconscious by another employee . reliance medical clinic diagnosis him with inhalation and was released back to full duty .
injury occurred removing pin from excavator boom . man was hit in the right side of head with the pin driver when the pin came completely out of bore hole . emergency medical technician was call and he was taken to be checked out .
prepping for a vulcanize splice . employee was cutting off pieces of fingers or wedges of belt . employee put a new blade in employee's knife and was cutting the fingers and had employee's left arm close to where employee was cutting and cut through the belt and cutting employee's right forearm .
employee was climbing up a extension ladder , when employee stepped up on the top part of ladder it slid down catching right hand between rungs and bruised the top of the hand .
employee was doing a post trip inspection of the track dozer . he slipped on an icy spot on the dump and fell , injuring his ankle . he sought treatment on 12/05/13 and was referred to an orthopedist . the orthopedist placed him off duty and referred him to a foot and ankle specialist .
employee was using a belt knife to trim belt and cut his right thigh
employee was changing the cover on the intake on blower when the wrench slipped and caused his right   elbow to hit the housing .
employee was fueling his loader , and when he returned the fuel nozzle he lost his footing and fell , twisting his left leg . he then went to the hospital and they said it was a sprain .
employee was working on a gardner denver drill at the quarry . he was walking around the drill when his head hit the corner of a tool box which was attached to the drill . the impact of the tool box against   his forehead caused him to receive 16 stitches to his head .
while removing rock that had fallen on continuous miner , a piece fell and hit employee on right hand . the middle finger on right hand was dislocated and the last digit was broken . employee considers this a mi nor injury . he took one day off and plans to be back after vacation .
employee was operating a fork truck and crossing a set of railroad tracks when the forks or load caught a rail causing the fork truck to stop abruptly . the employee was caught by his seatbelt but he bent forward and hit his chest on the steering wheel .
employee was climbing out of scoop and hit his elbow on the directional box in the deck . toney is 9-5-02 updated information was received today that he was going to be a lost time due to medical problems   with this elbow .
icy conditions on ramp leading up from bottom of pit
the employee was exiting a loader # 71-926. as he climbed down the ladder his hand slipped on the handrail . he twisted his left knee . saw company doctor on 4-30-09. no restrictions that prevented him from doing his job . returned to doctor on several occasions . surgery done on 7-29-09. reportable as of then .
employee was working on a catwalk . stepped backward off a step tot he lower catwalk 10 inches onto small piece of refractory and twisted his left ankle .
employee was welding on the drill frame . with the welding hood on looking through the clear lens he was chipping slag when a gust of wind blew a metal particle in behind the welding hood and into his left eye . his eye was washed out and he continued to work the remainder of shift . the eye became more irritated . he went to the clinic and a piece of metal was found embedded in his eye .
the employee was operating a drill and was in the process of changing out a bit sub , and as he was setting the bit sub into the drill deck pocket , using the wench line , the sub became unbalanced   and shifted , pinching his right hand between the bit sub and the carousel . the employee sustained a laceration on the inside of his right ring finger . was taken to the emergency room , received sutures
alleged incident was to occur while this employee was operating a scoop while pulling tool skid . tool skid that he was pulling lifted the rear of the scoop and let it drop . cause of this injury   was awareness and not putting the skid in the bucket of the scoop to pull . rough roadway a contributing factor .
employee operating chain saw cut a tree and a limb fell out of the top of it and striking him on the left arm and wrist
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in the return air course about 3,000 ' outby the mobile mining unit 001 section . there were 2 return entries in this area . cribs were built inby and outby the fall . the fall measured 18'-19 ' wide x 20'-25 ' long x 2'-6 ' thick . this area was bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
was sampling the face and he attempted to change the sample sack but slipped while gripping the sack . back of right hand brushed against quartz rock resulting in a laceration to back of hand 5 stitches .
employee was working on plant when he slipped in the mud and tripped on an extension cord causing him to fall fracturing his right arm .
employee strained his right knee while crossing the section tail piece .
employee was hit with falling debris when structural failure occurred in cement storage dome project
employee was using a pry bar to separate drilled slabs when he slipped out of the drill hole and fell down hitting his lower back . employee suffered a back sprain and bruising .
shear tail drum struck shield breaking off a bit which struck employee as employee moved quickly to avoid being struck by the bit , he twisted his knee . employee worked until 11-26-00 and had knee surgery performed   on 11-27-00 employee missed no days until 11-27-00
a five-employee crew was stringing a new conveyor belt using a 350 excavator , forklift , and pry bars . as the belt was being pulled into place , it lifted out of the troughing rolls , swinging toward three employees standing on the catwalk . the miner was caught between the belt and the handrail , causing a strain to neck , jaw and shoulder .
there was snow on the road to disposal site . the air mover lost traction at top of a hill along the road and was unable to continue to disposal site . there was ice on the ground where the air mover was disabled . employee exited vehicle to set wheel chocks . he was wearing required footwear , but no ice cleats . he sustained a fracture to right elbow , but is released to work with restrictions .
this is not an accident . employee was working with supervisor welding , wearing all personal protective equipment , when supervisor noticed employee's coloring not right . supervisor told employee to take off   and sit down . supervisor noticed employee's condition did not improve and proceeded to take employee to local emergency room and he was diagnosed as having a heart attack .
employee lifting the travel-side return idler bracket after splicing conveyor belt . idler shaft had not fully set in bracket and slipped out . sudden release carried bracket to employee's face chipping a tooth -- required dental repair .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 1 north 1 right return , entry 8 cross-cut 41 through 42. the roof fall measured approximately 60 ' in length , 17.5 ' in width , and 8 ' in thickness . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8448217 ) , was issued october 30 , 2012 , by mine safety and health administration inspector , glenn e fishback .
a roof fall was discovered at spad number 147 in the number 1 entry . the fall was approximately   20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7 1/2 ' high .
employee was sawing a timber with a bow saw , saw came out and cut him on the finger . had doctor appointment on 8/15/05 , returned to work 8/16/05
employee experienced pain in his left knee while walking . on 02/02/2011 employee had surgery on his left knee . it has been accepted as a work related injury .
employee stepped in gap in floor between kiln and hood platform while adjusting forklift mast .
employee was installing roofbolts . as he lowered the canopy , it hung on a roofbolt . when he swung the boom , the canopy came loose from the bolt and struck employee on top of the head .
employee was handing a 2 '' steel pipe down a ditch to another employee when he felt a muscle pull in his back .
employee was stripping forms . he slipped and fell backwards and the form fell on his leg . he did not report injury till 3 days later when he was crawling on rebar . he complained to support   about some pain 6/14/07 .
employee was cutting a weld on a 30 '' x 8 ' x 1/2 '' section of steel plate when the steel plate moved , pinching the employee's right foot between the walkway and the steel plate . employee was wearing steel toed boots   which save all of his toes .
injured was cleaning dirt from the back of the bit lug to put the snap-on ring on the insert . he cut his finger on the lug . he was taken to hospital where he received 2 stitches to the left index   finger.
affected area has weakness with low angle faults and water seepage in jointing and was closed off several weeks ago . roof fell sometime between 9/29 after 10 am and today 10/03 and was discovered during the pre-shift examination . cribs and post to be installed to prevent advance of fall .
hoist number 1 would not reset . mine safety and health administration was notified at 7:07 am , evacuation started at 7:05 am and completed at 7:18 am . the hoist was repaired at 7:30 am and the miners went back underground at 7:39 am . the hoist was tested before being put back into service . to prevent recurrence the pinion brake switches was adjusted .
employee was riding in bucket to shaft bottom . bucket hook struck employee on upper back .
employee came to work not feeling well . an ambulance was called and the employee apparently suffered a heart attack in the ambulance in route to the hospital .
employee was clearing trees with a 963 cat track loader he had stopped the loader and got off . when he got back on the loader he drove forward over a mound of dirt , as the loader traveled over the mound of dirt it tipped forward throwing employee forward into the mirror bracket .
employee was helping on the longwall set-up . while pulling cable he felt pain in his left shoulder . employee began losing time on 4/11/2008 .
working on belt using come-alongs released tension on belt , which caused the come-alongs to swing into his face striking his lip . personal protective equipment was not a factor , rules/regulations was not a factor , miner knowledge was a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
none - employee was leaving the scale house to get back into his truck . he collapsed , 911 was called as fellow employee's administered cpr . 2 ambulances and 1 first responder arrived as did mayo 1. fillmore county sheriff also was there assisting . employee was not involved in the crushing or screening of pederson bros he was strictly an over the road truck driver that delivered product to our customer
the employee was operating an underground loader clearing out a heading . he reports he was looking around the side of the operator's cab and he thinks he hit something in the roadway and struck his chin on the cab , resulting in a laceration . he was transported to er for evaluation and treatment . he received three sutures to repair the laceration .
the injured employee was in process of assisting with the loading of a roll of 54 '' belt into a scoop bucket. as he was standing next to scoop , a rib ( corner ) 24 '' x 40 '' x 18 '' fell and struck the employee on right leg .
employee had her right middle finger caught in the door as it shut , resulting in a fracture to the finger .
a roof fall was discovered in the 3 north 3 mains , return aircourse , at cross-cut 22 , between entries 3 and 4. the roof fall measures approximately 20 ' long , 16 ' wide , and 6 ' thick .
employee was checking pump starter to insure proper voltage . contractor had tied into wrong side of transformer . voltage was approximately   2400 volts , causing electrical burns .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 2 entry in the big daddy mains , 75 ' inby spad 634. fall measured 320 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8-10 ' thick . no equipment or injuries , passage of person was affected . area was developed 11/02 and roof support consisted of 4 ' resin bolts . state and federal agencies were notified immediately .
fork handle ( jack handle ) hit him above left eye when changing bits . jack handle may have broke .
the employee reported to his on supervisor on 3/4/15 that he was experiencing pain in his elbow while taping a cable . the employee has 4 years of repetitive motion of the elbow performing maintenance activities such as pulling/pushing wrenches , swinging hammers , pull on cables/wires etc . he started missing work on 5/15/15 . he was diagnosed with lateral epicondylitis ( tennis elbow ) .
a roof fall occurred measuring 20 ' long x 10 ' wide x 10 ' high in 6 right cut through a 3 breaks inby spad number 1761. no equipment was involved , no ventilation was disturbed no injury was reported   , and the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee raising the boom with the fast feed lever with right hand and holding 6 steels in the hole with his left hand . the end of the steel extended out of the hole 10 '' and as the boom was coming up to meet the end of the steel , the operator stated that the boom jumped and pushed his left hand up in the hole between the back and the turn table of the bolter .
employee was sawing off a section of reinforced rubber hose . on the last cut through the hose , the sharp end of the spiral wire sprung out and punctured employee's work glove on his left palm . this caused a laceration on employee's left hand .
employee caught his finger between pinner head and plate . broke end of finger and laceration with stitches .
a fall of the foot occurred in the 1st south east sub mains ( number 4 unit ) inby the tailpiece in the number 1 entry through the cross-cut to the number 2 entry .
he was in a grader backing up and hit a rock and he said his head had hit the glass but he kept working . then at 10:30 am he was grading the road and hit another rock jolting his neck . he left the   job and went home . he called the office on november 20 and said he was ok. then on november 21 he called the office and went to family doctor .
the employee was cooking his dinner on the stove and the oil in the pan caught on fire . as the injured put out the fire , he burned his hand . the doctor treated the burn with prescription medication   .
initial reported as first aid only . on 4/2/2008 went to a restricted duty case and became reportable . had been seen by two previous doctors and released without treatment . was installing a new deck frame on number 6 screen tried to push deck into place . he felt that he may have strained a muscle in back of left shoulder .
employee was working on number 1 kiln stone incline feed belt skirting . after completing the job he walked down the south stairway . a few feet away from the stairs , he stepped on a stone with his right   foot and twisted his ankle . after going to the doctor , he was told it was fractured .
the electrical motor for the 100-ton hoist failed thus preventing the hoist to be used as a brakecar . the hoist operator was in the process of lowering longwall equipment when the motor fired inside and smoked . cause of this incident was shorting of motor .
electrical power was interrupted to the 3100 vent doors ; the crew attempted to open them manually . after propping the doors open , they unexpectedly shut and employee's feet were struck .
became reportable 9/19/05 ( 1st day missed due to inability to work ) while shoveling loose coal along 6 north conveyor belt , employee twisted right knee
employee had the saddle in the vice right side up and was using a hammer and chisel to cut the bolts off . when the bolt cut his hand came in contact with the sharp ( worn ) edge of the saddle and cut his hand   .
while working on the lower level of the primary plant to install a new tail pulley guard for c-1 , employee needed to clean the tail section of the materail that spilled off the conveyor belt . when he turned on the high pressure water hose , the rubber grommet on the hose was worn away thus causing the water nozzle to fly off and lacerated his left shin
employee was closing the cable reel compartment cover . the cover was stiff and as he pulled on it the cover broke loose and closed , catching his left thumb between the cable reel compartment and the cover . the incident caused a laceration to the left thumb requiring sutures . he did not miss any time and is working with sutures .
employee and another employee were putting strut on a r-35 euclid truck and employee was jacking the front of truck up and the jack jumped out from under truck catching his hand between truck and jack and broke first finger and maybe second finger on left hand .
roof fall 5th panel north , number   2 entry , beginning 1 cross-cut from face , extending outby 200 ' . approximately 200' long x 18' wide x 5'-12 ' high .
employee was using an angle grinder when his left middle finger came in contact with the grinding wheel . received a laceration which required 3 sutures to close . after receiving medical attention , has not missed any work .
maintenance foreman was using a chain hoist to lift replacement center drum on continuous miner head . the hoist slipped and fell onto his left hand . he finished his shift and then sought medical care . he was diagnosed with multiple fractures to the left hand . he has continued to work .
employee had finished loading rail car and was climbing down ladder from the platform over the loadout belt . he was on the rung above the catwalk when he fainted . employee does not remember laying on catwalk   . employee started vacation on 7-13-00 .
an unintentional fall occurred between the number 4 and number 5 entry of the 2nd main west at the 10+50 ' . the area was 50 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' . fall area was bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
received a hearing loss diagnosis for employee . employee was laid off on 8/25/14 .
employee has made a claim under our workers compensation alleging that he injured his back while lifting a 50 lb bag of block bond on 2/24/07 . he had not made any mention of injury that day to his supervisor or to his coworkers . it was 12 to 14 days before we learned he was seeking treatment . i then had to wait to hear from him to get details as he had had his phone number changed .
while walking by number 28 scoop tractor employee hit his left knee on the holding knob for the flinger duster .
employee went to remove lock out and turn breaker on . when he turned on the rod mill breaker it blew up blowing breaker doors open . he burnt his right arm and bruised right forefinger . he was taken to co doctor and prescribed an antibiotic ointment for the burn .
an unplanned roof fall was discovered in north mains in the number one entry at 67 cross-cut . the area fell between cribs and on cribs in an intersection . it measured 15 ' wide by 12 ' long and approximately 6 ' high at the highest point above the original roof line .
removing shock off of mv-22 maintenance truck , employee pinched finger . finger tip was fractured and stitches were required to replace nail
a roof fall occurred in the 5th mains north , number 4 entry , inby spad 11+46 . the fall was inby an intersection , started with an abandoned overcast brow and traveled 25-30 ' inby . it measured approximately   17 ' x 30 ' x 8 ' high . the fall was outby all working sections .
employee was cutting a shock off a mantrip in the shop when the shock ruptured and burned him on his right arm and face . he was treated for second degree burns on his arm .
roof fall occurred in number 4 entry northwest   mains belt and track entry at spad number 12126 and extended 70 ' outby and 22 ' wide and 12 ' high . area was supported with 4 ' x 6 ' resin rods .
at approximately   11 am , a contract employee and a millwright employee were in a man lift basket extended inside of the small hopper-stilling shed . the contract employee was working on cutting a wear plate loose in the hopper . he was holding a torch in one hand and used a hammer with the other hand to knock a section of the plate loose . the impact of hammer blow vibrated . the torch ignited the coal dust .
50 ' x 19 ' x 5 ' rock fall on ellis mains in number 7 entry 60 ' inby spad 871 .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at approximately 9:30 pm in the intersection of the number 6 entry to the right of survey station number   1289. the fall was approximately 4 ft high by 25 ft wide by 25 ft long .
wildland grass fire caused by a spark of a train burned about 90 acres . the fire was contained around 7:00 pm . local fire department assisted . all units were released at 10:20 pm ( mop up completed ) . mine safety and health administration was called - message was left - was never called back .
loose rock fell from roof and struck employee on the right   shoulder while loading a shot from the manlift . employee was examined at the hospital , he had torn ligaments in his right   shoulder .
employee was filling 35 lb . 5 gallon buckets with material . he had pain in his lower right side of his abdomen .
while descending the stairs leaving the breakroom a mine foreman's right foot slipped from under him . he believes it may have been a wet stair or his foot simply landed wrong . he managed to catch himself on the handrail but his right foot slid towards his left foot . he was treated at a local emergency room where it was determined he had broken his tibia at the ankle .
emerald coal resources lp was provided documentation claiming an employee of 13 years of experience sustained an occupational induced hearing loss while employed at the emerald mine . this claim is being evaluated by the mine operator .
injured man broke cut off valve for deluge fire spray . he turned the water off on the 6 inch line , when he bled the pressure off the line , it blew his hand into a pizza pan which was part of the bearing surface for roof support and received a cut to his finger .
a unplanned roof fall was discovered in 2b panel ( 11+40 ) cross-cut number 16 entry number 6 . the fall was blocking the primary escapeway and had high-voltage cable under it . approximately length 18 ' , width 18 ' , height 6 ' .
employee was cleaning the magnet . the tray slipped spilling metal fragments and bolts onto belt . as employee was cleaning debris from belt piece of metal cut his finger .
employee was operating a jeep on track haulage when the jeep went off track causing the employee to hit head and left upper back . the continued to work till see by a doctor and was diagnosed with a broken rib on 3/31/17 and taken off work .
person was pinning top on off side of roofbolter when a rock fell knocking person down his leg went under drill pot while pot was coming down .
employee was unplugging a drain with a motorized snake . when reversing direction employee used right hand on the metal snake to guide it when his glove was caught and dislocated his finger .
holding remote for shields while moving walking shield , rock fell pinning legs against a pallet of cribs employee continued to work . leg was still sore mri revealed small crack , his last day worked was 12/29/2011 .
employee stated employee was sitting on the back of the roof bolt machine in the number 6 entry on the number 1 section when a piece of draw rock approximately 9 '' wide x 35 '' long x 1.5 '' thick fell from between bolts from the mine roof and struck employee on the right hand and right knee . this resulted in a contusion , and three lost work days .
employee was using sledge hammer to hit cap piece to close inspection door on panline . missed cap piece and finger was cut when being caught between hammer handle and panline . sutures were required to close the laceration .
employee was pulling a shield and when he lowered the shield , the baselift blew out the threads of the cylinder , causing metal shards to strike employee in the arm .
employee was climbing down the ladder of a front end loader . the ladder was wet from rain . his foot slipped on a wet ladder rung and he twisted his right knee trying to catch himself from falling .
holding sledge hammer for another employee to tighten nut on omnicone crusher employee's sledge deflected off other sledge and hit injured employee in the eye . safety glass broke causing laceration to left eye
employee was removing scaffold board in 4th stage cyclone of the preheater vessel , when employee tripped over hose while carrying scaffold board , injuring employee's left knee .
employee states while throwing crib block from kneeling position he felt pop in right knee . he then experienced pain . he went later for medical treatment and started missing time .
employee finished loading a round and when the went to remove the remote from mine belt , finger contacted open box cutter causing a cut . stitches required to close the wound . employee released to full duty on next scheduled shift .
employee took parts to the galatia north portal . while using the forklift to put the parts on the cage , he tried to push the door open further while still on the forklift . the forklift rolled back and caught employee's left arm between the forklift canopy and door frame .
when employee bent over to load a bundle of roofbolts , he felt pain in his lower back .
employee was using a skilsaw when it jumped and cut his left little finger . employee received 7 sutures
employee stepped into feed hopper ( which was out of service ) to clean and slipped and twisted his ankle .
3/21/07 , employee reported pain in left shoulder while tossing a truck headrest to coworker . employee was seen by a doctor who returned   employee to work on next shift . 5/21 employee off work due to pain . employee had received   cortisone   treatment in february employee has preexisting condition and treated for pain prior to 5/21 report . determined likely to accumulated trauma disorder .
employee was squaring up belt to splice he was cutting toward himself the knife slipped , came off the belt and cut a 1.5 '' place above his right knee. employee drove himself to the hospital after the shift ended and rec . three stitches . employee returned to work on his next shift with instructions to review the accident and task train his crew on the correct way to use a knife .
employee was positioning water line to haul ug . a joint had unknowingly got into a bind and when he moved it , it sprang back and hit him in head creating a cut that required stitches .
a roof fall occurred on south f # 6x # 1hdg outby feeder . fall was above anchorage 18 ' wide , 20 ' long and 6 ' high . no men or machines were injured , no ventilation or travel affected .
at 3:50 pm a roof fall was found . the fall was found at spad number 2781 , 3 breaks outby number 3 belt drive in number 2 entry measuring 20 ' x 20 ' x 20 ' . this fall was reported outside at 4:00 pm this fall will not be cleaned up according to superintendent . this area will be timbered and dangered off from all four sides . no injuries are associated with this fall .
employee was bolting top , when a piece of rock fell and hit him .
roof bolter operator was spotting bolt back that had been dislodged from the roof . after drilling about 6 inches of the hole , rock fell striking canopy then slid and hit operator .
employee was walking under the boom of his drill while doing pre-shift inspection and bumped his head . he then stumbled catching himself and straining his shoulder .
while putting material in blender using a shovel his left shoulder began to hurt . he did not report the incident until the following day . this has been a recurring injury and might have been a preexisting condition . he had surgery on his shoulder on 09/28/2006 .
employee was hitting the neck of the finish mill with a sledge hammer ( because of a neck choke up ) trying to unstop the neck . cement falling from above got into his left eye . he was wearing safety glasses at the time .
two employees were working on broken track when the pry bar slipped and the track fell on one's shoulder and collar bone .
in the process of assisting in the removal of teeth from a used loader bucket , a piece of metal broke off embedding in employee's   leg .
while carrying a 123 lb . sheet of steel , with another employee , he sprained his shoulder , reinjuring it .
employee reports discomfort to right wrist/forearm area the employee believes secondary to shoveling during previous shift . did not report until 3-18-18. diagnosed with tenosynovitis . put on restricted duty .
snow on ground employee was walking down metal stair , slipped and fell straining thigh
employee was holding one end of a wire rope that is used to pull belting on conveyors . the other end was attached to a fork lift and as the forks were raised it pulled on his arm .
employee was washing a haul truck on wash pad . he stepped off a short retaining wall onto a rock twisting left ankle .
employee backed truck into bollard , causing tightness in his lower to mid-back
on 5-15-09 employee was unloading coal , bending over swinging a sledge hammer to open unloading door when he felt a pain in lower back . after continued pain , was seen by our doctor 5/21/09 , given pain meds and released to full work . 5/22/09 his condition worsened and he began to experience severe pain down right leg . seen in emergency room 5/23 and 5/25/09 . 5/26 his work status was listed as totally disabled .
employee was in a manlift basket placing fencing material for pillar fill . he was using his right hand to operate controls while handling fence with his left hand . his right thumb was resting on top of   control guard . as he raised the basket , his right thumb was pinched between brow of the back severing most of the last joint on right thumb . the bone from tip of thumb was surgically reattached .
employee slipped on oily surface and twisted left knee while repairing hydraulic leak . note : this became lost time accident on mar 7th due to employee having surgery on injured knee
we brought up coal mill a and the merrick belt caught fire . belt burned up and a little damage to belt structure . there were no injuries
employee was hooking up battery cables to a kawasaki loader . he did so improperly and the battery exploded into face and eye .
employee was holding a piece of metal in place to be welded . over the time period employee was exposed to welding flashes . therefore causing flash burns to his eyes .
employee was using a 2 ' long pry bar to open the inspection lid on the door of a vsi crusher . he was pulling bar toward himself when the bar slipped striking employee in the right corner of his mouth . the corner of the employee's mouth was cut and required 4 stitches .
employee stepped across lounge of mobile mine office , bumped head on air conditioning unit protruding from wall causing injury . he was taken to the emergency room . for treatment and stitches were used to close the wound .
employee was installing roof bolts when his glove ( leather ) was caught between the head ( drill ) and pinner steel dislocating the thumb on his right hand .
employee was installing 10 ' cable bolts on the 13 west head gate and smashed left ring finger between the shaft of the bolt and the mast of the roofbolter . restricted duty .
employee was helping make a belt splice in number 15 b belt . he stepped from the belt to get a tool , stepped on a lump of coal and twisted his right ankle .
he was walking across driveway toward the lab building after putting trash in dumpster . his right ankle rolled out from under him causing him to fall . he fractured and partially dislocated his right ankle . the driveway is level and covered with 1b stone .
moving steel and rolled a t brace on left foot resulting in contusion . x-rays negative . seven days restricted work . no lost time . restricted work provided by employer .
roof fall 2 north panel now active abandoned unit entry number 5 cross-cut number 5 . 35' long x 18' wide x 19' high propped 4-way intersection .
employee was walking up the belt line when he slipped and hurt his right shoulder trying to stop his fall .
employee was lifting a 4 x 4 x 12 when he lost his balance and dropped the 4 x 4 . it bounced up and hit his shin .
employee climbed on very small step ladder to check level of hydraulic oil on haul truck . he fell from ladder landing on shoulder . he didn't think it was a reportable accident , but his shoulder continued   to hurt and he sought medical treatment .
loading 80 lb bag of salt in spreader for snow melting on haul ramps/roads . picked up bag , hurt lower back .
after completing a sanding job on a piece of equipment , employee removed facial personal protective equipment , and felt irritation to his right eye . no days missed , no restricted work . final diagnosis given during follow up evaluation on 5-24-11 .
employee was kneeling on the mine floor , cutting a piece of 48 '' conveyor belt with a razor knife . the knife slipped out of the belt cutting employee's right leg , requiring 8 sutures .
employee was bolting in an intersection and became overheated . employee was taking to clinic and received iv fluids .
employee was initially injured on 5/22/02 but did not seek medical attention . he was carrying pinch valves up three decks of stairs to do maintenance work . employee then sought medical attention on 6/19/0 2 and was given a 3 week light duty restriction. he has since been returned to full duty as of 7/15/02 . employee was advised to use other means for lifting .
employee . slipped while getting in to truck and sprained his shoulder . employee . did not seek medical   treatment until 12/27/2007 where he was given a prescription and restriction on left arm .
employee was bolting top , after he put the last bolt up he went to get up off knees to move roofbolter up and when he stood up his right knee gave away . employee had surgery and started missing on 06-16-04 .
employee claims that he began having lower back pains after he got home after he had driven a 1998 case front end loader model 621b all day . he continued to operate this machine daily until 4-3-02 when   the pain became unbearable . he was treated at pro med clinic and restricted from duty until 4/8/02 at which time he was released to full duty .
employee was attempting to unplug a welding machine that was being used to weld inside a calciner . his hand slipped and his left pinky finger was cut on a jagged piece of the plug . he was not wearing gloves at the time .
unimin operator was driving loader with shovel loaded and elevated over 6 ft consequently , the shovel impaired his vision . he drove directly into our mack dump truck , plowing into cab of truck and   above the cab . my driver had right-of-way and blowed horn etc . the loader crushed cab of truck , severely injuring my driver .
heavy lifting may have caused a hernia while performing maintenance tasks at the rock plant . the employee did not report the injury to his supervisor until 8/20/12 , at which time he was taken immediately to simi health center , where he is currently being referred to a surgeon for treatment . until then , the employee is on restricted duty with no lifting over 15 lb .
employee was standing on steel platform designed to catch slag . platform broke loose from weld under weight of employee and other employee . employee hit back on on roll press housing leading to bruises on back .
employee was helping hang miner cable when employee felt pain in left groin area . this resulted in a hernia .
at 10:27 am employee reported a roof fall at cross-cut 30 between number 6 and number 4 entries , taking out intersection in number 5 entry .
employee reported left shoulder began hurting while driving truck . initial diagnosis was strain/sprain . mri revealed arthritis , bone spurs , and slap tear . none of these conditions are a result of employees work activities . employee was prescribed therapy beginning 11/27/12 . advised by mine safety and health administration denver to report incident anyway .
employee was going down a small sand ramp to reload . lost control of his truck which caused his truck to bounce hard and high . the hard bounce caused him to strain his back , neck and shoulder .
employee was climbing the access ladder of the rock truck when he felt a pop in his left knee . the knee was sprained .
employee was changing a starter on the 1990 gmc pick-up , when a foreign object fell in his left eye . the employee was wearing eye protection when the incident occurred . prescriptions were given .
the company was notified 7/9/13 that employee qualified for a occupational pneumoconiosis claim .
employee was cleaning top of punch plates on number 1 shaker , as he hit rock it busted in several pieces and came back and hit employee on his right leg at the shin area . employee did not go to doctor until 10-31-01 .
employee was helping splice a shuttle car cable when his knife slipped off the cable causing a laceration to his finger on his left hand .
eh employee alleges he was stepping off a sample pile of rock and his foot slipped causing his knee to twist and turn outwards .
employee was lowering jackhammer to ground from l6 platform in shale bin area . the jackhammer slipped and the employee caught the tool in order to keep it from striking the ground . employee suffered a strained left elbow . employee was treated with first aid until employee was given cortisone shot and meds on 7/27/17 .
clearing weeds and small trees , pushing them up a hill . when he reached the top of the hill , there was a dozer approaching . he lunged forward and put his arms out , striking the mirror with his left forearm . no sutures , given prescription . released from care 8/21/15 .
individual was swinging a 8 lb   sledge hammer making a belt splice when experiencing a pop in the right shoulder . this did not involve any compliance issues , no equipment involved . this did not involve proficiency or attitude . all protective items relating to clothing and protective devices were being utilized .
while exiting a haul truck after completing instrumental work , the employee slipped from muddy boots and caught his left pinky on the upright to the handrail .
employee was moving monorail that was stacked on top of the stageloader and his grip slipped and he pinched his finger between the monorail and the stageloader deck . cause of this injury was safety awareness . compliance with rules/regulations was not a factor , protective equipment was being worn ( gloves ) , miner proficiency a factor , mining systems could be a factor .
a non injury roof fall occurred at cross-cut   15 2nd east mains number 3 entry . the fall measure 6 ' high 24 ' wide and 40 ' long . this fall was int he primary escapeway .
employee was bolting with jackleg when machine fell forward and employee tried to hold the machine from falling down and pulled a groin muscle in doing so .
employee's recent audiogram results indicated that he had experienced a loss of hearing in one or both ears . the level of loss is such that he had experienced a loss of 25 db or more in one or more ear . this loss is in comparison to his baseline to audiogram here at san juan mine .
fall in intersection on 1a belt ( cross-cut between number 3 and 4 entry ) - break 10-1-a fall was approximately 18' wide x 40' long x 4-5' high .
employee lost grip on bar used to load belting and bar fell striking his right foot .
employee was driving key wedge down in the jaw crusher using a piece of steel shaft and a sledge hammer . a piece of steel came off shaft where it was being struck with a hammer . the piece of steel went into right leg above knee on inside of leg .
employee had pulled his truck onto the dump area and started backing up to the dumping site . as he was backing back the road split and he backed between the split of the roads the truck turned over onto   its side
employee was cutting a piece of pipe with a cutting torch when he lost his footing - when he grabbed for the pipe he passed the torch over the back of his left hand burning his fingers . he was wearing gloves , but not his company issued personal protective equipment pair of welding gloves .
man was riding mantrip felt pain in back .
employee was assisting pulling a belt together and he stepped over the pull cable , the chain on a sheave broke the cable striking him in the lower leg causing a break to the leg .
sperry well drilling company was drilling a well for a customer and drilled into the mine . water entered the mine through the 6 '' hole . the hole was plugged and grouted .
employee was assisting with the lifting of a 12 '' plastic pipe elbow when he experienced pain in his low back . the incident was reported to his supervisor on 5/12/03 . he was examined by the authorized provider the same day and physical therapy was prescribed and performed .
employee stepped on mud while walking on catwalk slipped and fell 7'8 '' he hit his head on the ground causing a laceration of about 11/4 '' long . this required sutures employee stepped over a hand rail to an area not designed for human traffic
employee was helping raise up guard rails on scales at the load out . one employee picked up their end of pipe and when the other employee picked up their end , it slipped out of their hands . the pipe fell and struck the employee in the right knee , requiring 8 stitches .
fire lasting longer than 30 mins . after discovery burned grass , hdpe pipe , and power poles near cic . no injuries , no environmental release , no cyanide issues and no outside resources needed . fire was caused by arcing on a jumper insulator on a line pole in an area where vegetation is dry . 3 water trucks responded ( 1 put out fire , 1 on hot spots , and 1 on stand by ) .
employee was helping with pressing a new bearing into a roller mill roll body . employee and coworker were using a portapower chained to the roll body . this chain is a load bearing chain but too much torque was applied and the chain broke and struck employee's right foot on top just behind the steel toe . x-ray reveals broken bone ( one ) in top of foot . resulted in hard cast/light duty ( no lost time ) .
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers ' compensation division for occupational hearing loss .
employee overreached and felt pain in lower back , no lost work days , no restrictive duties . employee no longer works for zeotech corporation .
was cleaning packed clay and rock from grizzly on screen with a pick . when upper back muscle tighten to a hardness causing pain .
employee was dropping out a bad piece of trail cable and putting good cable in a junction box . as he was going to the box with the good cable he tripped and fell twisting his right   knee . employee was placed on restricted duty .
employee was picking up some expanded metal when it caught on a ladder and cut his thumb .
cut left hand when installing valve on 1 '' hose . stitches required .
employee was installing a starter on a shield hauler . employee was on top of the machine rubbing back against the roof . during this time some dirt got into employee's right eye . employee finished the shift and went for medical treatment later that evening .
roof fall occurred at the number 1 portal number 3 track at the 5 cross-cut . fall was 40 ' long x 17 ' wide x 10 ' high .
employee was roof bolting on number 4 unit , number 8 entry , cross-cut 18 when a piece of rock fell , striking him on the neck and shoulders . employee did not sustain any fractures , but missed work on 11/7/06 .
employee stated that he was washing on the slope . he stepped on a mandoor that gave way causing him to fall . he was diagnosed with a rotator cuff tear . his first last work day did not occur until 7/20/06 due to surgery .
the employee was performing maintenance on a screen , he stood up and stepped on a nut cover - rolling his right ankle .
employee was pulling roof bolt off pinner and had his hand on end of bolt . ran bolt into rib with his hand on the end , smashing end of finger .
operating a walk-through bolter installing roof bolts at the face , employee was pushing a roof bolt into the drilled hole , the plate slid down and struck employee on right forearm causing a contusion . employee continued to work performing normal occupation without restrictions until surgery was conducted to repair nerve damage to employee's forearm . employee began missing time on 10-03-2017 .
employee was on top of the railroad car with his harness intact and roped . he lifted the pole into the air , at that point the power line arced a discharge towards his pole . he stood straight up and fell off the rail car . received 3 burns , chest , right arm , left leg . the electricity exited his body through his left ankle .
enterprise mining company llc was notified on 4/1/2011 that employee , was awarded a hearing loss . employee continues to work in his present job classification , at this time
employee was standing on mobile lubrication trailer in the process of filling a grease tank at the crusher when a pressurized grease hose burst an startled the employee . he jumped forward from the trailer to the ground and struck his left knee on the ground .
employee was shoveling spillage from the floor behind number 1 shaker when he experienced pain in his left shoulder .
employee was on his knees driving spads in the bottom to hold down line curtain .
employee slipped on a rock and twisted right knee . given a brace for 2 weeks . lost time .
on 6/2/01 employee began feeling pain in his neck and shoulder unable to work for the pain he sought medical treatment . this has been classified as an occupational illness due to his job and past medical records
employee was pushing up on a run through and felt a sharp pain in right shoulder . employee stated that pain progressed through the shift . employee requested to see doctor employee was prescribed physical therapy . this is being submitted as a medical treatment .
employee was hanging curtain , bent over and twisted pulling something in lower part of back . he continued to work until 9/25/02 when he consulted a doctor .
employee was installing a transmission on a d9 track dozer. finger got caught between parts .
employee was using a slate bar to remove a piece of rock from off of the continuous miner when he injured his back . the employee has continued to work until 4/23/04 at which time he began losing time. last day worked , 4/23/04 .
employee injured lower back while picking up a hydraulic wrench .
employee was carrying air hoses down a short flight of stairs ( 3 steps ) from the preheater tower when he missed the last step . he fell to his left and twisted his left knee . he was diagnosed with a torn anterior cruciate ligament and meniscal tear and was operated on march 1 , 2002 , to repair the damage .
a fall of roof occurred at the number 5 break cross-cut number 2 - number 3 entries on the 30 butt section . fall was outby working section . no injuries or equipment involved . fall was 20 ft in length , 16 ft in width and 8 ft in height .
employee was operating a haul truck . he was backing up and couldn't see . he stuck his arm out of the side of the canopy to turn around and look back , when his arm got pinched between the rock rib and his truck . he was transported to the emergency room . for evaluation and treatment . he was diagnosed with a hairline fracture of the arm .
employee stated that he was backing truck onto the stockpile ramp to dump coal , when the hoist nest broke , causing the bed to shift , laying truck partially on its side .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 12-10-06 in 002 intersection , number 5 entry and spad no . 10860. the fall measured 20 ' in length , 20 ' width and 01 - 6 ' height .
employee was replacing the broken handle on his personal chipping hammer in the north shop . while using a bench vise to secure the new handle in position , employee used another small hammer to drive the wedge pin into the top of the new handle at the head of the chipper . the 2 hammer heads made contact , causing several small pieces of metal to break off and went into top of employee's left hand .
employee sprained ankle while walking to work area , he stepped on a small bolt causing ankle to turn under .
employee was mounting a dozer when his footing slipped and he fell , while holding onto the handrail . employee complained of lower back pain at the end of his shift , employee was diagnosed with a sprain to his lower back .
employee stepped into a pile of hydrated lime and got some inside his right boot . he did not notice until he got home that it irritated his skin around the top of boot and caused a blister around his ankle . he was given bandage and pain meds he was offered light duty and refused . when told we had an office job for him he quit after 8 days off . `` blister ''
examiner found a rock fall located 4th south west submains outby unit number 1 in the primary escapeway . ( 22+60 ) cross-cut number 30 , entry # 4. it was approximately 35 ' in length , 19 ' in width , greater than 6 ' in height .
employee was replacing u-joint in drive line and hit his thumb with hammer causing an open wound requiring stitches .
while dismounting the bucket loader via the ladder , employee slipped and banged his thigh against the steel step .
employee finished bolting and while wiping face with a rag , employee felt something in left eye and employee stated employee got it out . at 4:00 am it started bothering employee again , employee reported it , was seen by site medic , referred to the emergency room , then onto a ophthamologist where a rust ring was removed and restrictions were given .
the employee was lifting and moving a wood pallet , which had a 50 lb blower on it , when it slipped . the right middle finger of employee was caught in between two wood pallets . the employee sustained a ( right ) long finger crush injury with suturable laceration and open distal phalanx fracture .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 2 gas mine at break . number 3 in the number 4 belt entry near spad # 1174. the fall measured 25 ' long x 20 ' wide x 15 ' high . no injuries were reported .
a roof fall occurred on the 2 west submain , number 1 entry between number 13 and number 14 cross-cuts near spad number   8457. the fall was 70 ' long , 20 ' wide and 4 ' high . the area was bolted with 4 ' point anchor bolts . a small portion of the fall will be cleaned up to allow access to the weekly inspection of a seal . the rest of the area will be timbered off .
geologic conditions consisting of grey shale top mixed with stack rock . cover of 330 ' , area was bolted with 6 ' fully grouted resin bolts with hole boards and 12 ' non-tension cable bolts as supplement . fall was approximately 16 ' by 16 ' and 10 ' in height . notified mine safety and health administration hotline .
operating jackhammer , employee felt something snap in wrist ; momentarily lost control of jackhammer .
while assisting another employee in the removal of an electric motor , the jack cable holding it in place slipped. the injured went to catch the motor so it would not hit other employee . his finger got   caught between the motor and motor base . this resulted in a cut to his little finger .
the employee was welding in the tub of the marion 8050 number 124 dragline and was chipping the slag off of the weld . a piece of welding slag flew off and over the top of his safety glasses and landed in his left eye . he was taken to the clinic , where the slag was removed and he was released to return to work with no restrictions . no time lost .
a surface brush fire was discovered on mine property near the neely pump . pictorial evidence gathered the following day indicated that vandals may have been burning off the insulation to a section of pump cable . evidence from nearby spectators indicate two young men on 4-wheelers left the scene just moments earlier . the nearby fire department extinguished the brush fire .
the employee was hanging water line during a belt move , when the employee let the tugget down employee was using employee hand slipped and lacerated hand on the side of a roof strap . the employee was wearing all the appropriate personal protective equipment and did not violate any laws or company policies .
employee was loading and unloading tank cars in extreme hot and humid weather conditions . he became nauseated and sick . he started feeling dizzy and fellow workers applied cold compresses and called for an ambulance for further medical care . he was treated at emergency room and told to stay home next day and to drink lots of fluids .
employee's hand got caught between the hoist cable and the kelly bar and two fingers were severed .
employee was riding in on mantrip , when mantrip ran over rock in haulway , employee stated he hit his head on canopy of mantrip and came down hard on tailbone .
a fire occurred on the number 6 belt flight that was found at approximately   4:00     am all persons were evacuated from the mine and fire fighters were pulled in by state and federal agencies .
employee was removing rock from syntron feeder in tunnel when the rock fell onto bar it pinned his thumb on right hand against concrete wall .
while repairing the cable track on the novamac drill , operator fell approximately 7 ' to the ground . strap broke causing operator to lose his balance .
a fire was discovered in the tall grass above the 1 north highwall at 2pm . the grass fire was not extinguished within 30 minutes . a motor grader and mine fire fighting equipment had the fire contained and out shortly after the 30 minute timeframe . at no time were miners or mine equipment and structures at risk of injury .
employee was hosing down sump . he slipped on ice and fell , bruising his ribs . he was released for full duty on 1-13-01 , however , the doctor told him to not exert himself for a few days , so i figure it's restricted duty .
employee was hanging belt chains and foot twisted and sprained left knee .
employee was working in the number 2 intake entry close to the fan shaft . cleaning up and rebolting a slate fall , bolter had been backed out of the fall area , employee and a coworker were under supported top evaluating the next step . coworker walked away , staying under supported top . as employee started to follow coworker , he was struck by a rock originating from the fall area .
employee was stepping off a man trip ( school bus ) twisted his left ankle and fell to the ground . employee was taken to brookwood medical center and the diagnosis was left ankle sprained . employee expected to be off until 1/12/12
employee was operating manbus on west track and got something in his eye .
croell employee was coiling electric cord and strained his right shoulder .
employee was performing his normal job duties with several other employees . while shoveling coal on the off-walkway side of the belt outby the stageloader , the employee fell to the ground . the other employees stated he was unconscious and started performing cpr . he never regained consciousness and was later pronounced dead . the apparent heart attack doesn't appear to be work-related
employee was picking rocks off the catwalk when the screen overflowed and a rock hit him in the shoulder .
employee was operating continuous miner in number 4 heading when piece of rock fell striking him between shoulders and lower back . he was about 40 ' outby . rock fell out between rib ( right rib ) and rib bolts . may have strained muscles in neck and lower back , accident
employee was powdering a room . an anfo loading air hose became stuck . the employee was working to free the hose when the hose became free and pushed the employees hand into the rail of the basket on his piece of equipment .
the employee is mexican and communication is almost impossible without an interpreter . he alleges his eye was swelling because of the heat . he could not give a date for injury . he went to the doctor without telling his supervisor and a few days later reported it as work related . he saw the doctor on 7/13/00 and brought back a note stating not to return to work until 7/16/00 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at 65 wall int he old belt entry in west . the fall measured approximately   30 ft long x 16 ft wide x 10 ft high . no injuries or equipment damage .
he was climbing down a ladder from the operator station on the irock portable crusher . he was on the bottom step , he put his foot on the ground and twisted his ankle on a rock .
employee assisted with an underground survey and after the work was finished employee noticed while in the shower what seemed like a hernia cause is unknown but employee suspected that carrying the surveying gear   in a crouched position may have caused the hernia .
employee was assisting in servicing truck . he was in the process of passing an air filter to another serviceman for installation . the other guy dropped the used filter it struck him in the head.   seven stitches was utilized to close the wound .
employee and coworker were attempting to pry a section of `` eico track '' on longwall face . the slate bar slipped and fell into the face conveyor . it hit a flight and swung out , striking employee in left ribs .
employee went to see a doctor on 8-21-01 and was taken off work . when employee stood up from welding , he backed into a piece of hot angle iron with his left elbow .
cleaning inside rail cars with a pressure washer and the pressure washer contacted the side of right foot causing a hole in boot and a laceration to right foot .
employee was pulling piece of draw rock in number 5 entry , had a piece of drill steel laying on head of bolter . pulled rock and it hit the piece of drill steel causing it to hit him in left side of face . missed   1 day because of late doctors appointment .
after employee had taken a load of computers over to ( by cart ) the plant offices and unloaded them she states she felt pain in her lower back and upper left leg . she sought medical attention on 2-26. doctor stated aggravation of pre-existing injury to upper leg . ( restricted duty ) .
employee stated he didn't feel well . he was having difficulty breathing , said his chest felt tight , his arms and hands were numb . he was sweating . ambulance arrived within ten minutes . while waiting for ambulance he was sitting next to the ice machine with the door open to cool off . prior to not feeling well , he was using a hand grinder to smooth the edges on some metal plates .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st southeast mains from entry 0 to entry 1 at survey station 27+50 . the fall measured 90' long x 18.5' wide x 9' thick . this area had been bolted with 9' doublelock and 6' fully grouted bolts . all approaches to this area have been timbered .
try to empty silo , opened port to remove lumps and material flushed out into face . jack hammering lumps material dislodged and flushed into face .
employee walked by a drill press and brushed the drill press causing a steel pin to roll off and land on her toe .
on my weekly return run i discovered a roof falling number 9 room from the face out by 60 ' from # 117010 intersection , there was a mud slip from number 8 room which was bolted with 4 ' and 6 ' bolts all other had 3 ' bolts . the fall was approx 60 ' long 18 ' wide and 5-12 ' high .
employee was picking up clay balls off conveyor belt , felt back pull and start hurting .
while adjusting the wireline , employee pinched his finger between the wireline and the pulley , resulting in a cut and bruised finger .
employee stepped out of the diesel locomotive employee was operating to open a track switch . as employee did , employee stepped on a flat wood switch tie and rolled employee's left ankle . employee was diagnosed with a sprain . employee didn't violate any regulations but failed to watch where employee was stepping . was wearing required personal protective equipment and is properly trained .
while doing a screen change on a rotex mineral separator , an operator was tightening a bolt with a wrench . the wrench slipped and the operator's hand contacted an edge on the equipment . the operator suffered a laceration on right hand ( third finger ) that required 4 stitches .
employee slipped on ladder to bulk bins , and twisted his right knee
injured stated he was operating the 4100 demag shovel in the pit area when the seat . slipped out of position causing a jerking motion . the motion caused an injury to his lower back .
employee was cutting the linkage on the cage of the crusher when a rock came down the chute bouncing off the rotor and through the opening striking the employee on the head , causing a laceration which required stitches , and/or staples .
while palletizing rock , crossboard broke at joint allowing rock to fall on right   foot . employee did not feel it was hurt bad enough to go to the doctor until 9/05/05 . the doctor x-rayed his ankle and found the bone on the ankle was fractured . they put his foot in a boot and told him to work modified duty .
the employee was walking to the section , he tripped on the cable ( for battery charger ) that was lying on the bottom , causing him to fall striking his right rib cage against the charger . note the employee's last day at work was 9-16-04 .
injured right   knee when lifting engine hood during a pre-operational inspection of a fuel/lube truck . the preferred location to raise the hood is directly in front of the truck . when employee pulled the hood forward to open the hood , it traveled past normal open position forcing employee to the ground . this was due to a retaining pin that apparently vibrated out of the cable/spring device .
employee was pulling crusher , stepped through hole in cat walk , landed on right knee . cut/scraped right knee . currently working under restricted work activity . note : currently employed in welding shop - working at smyrna quarry day of injury .
employee was operating a loader and shovel . employee did not report having complications till end of shift and only filled out a c-1 . on october 21 , 2018 employee complained of lower back pain and wanted to be scene by a doctor .
employee was helping two other employees cut the bands on a bundle of screens . when employee cut the bottom band the band sprang back and struck him in the left hand resulting in 3 stitches .
while unloading the shaft liner plate from the carrier , the form that was tied off to a tugger raised unexpectedly and pinched the employee's thumb between the liner plate and the cross beam on the galloway .
received medical notes on 09/27/11 . employee was working in a pipe rack connecting steel when he lost his balance and fell , caught by his harness and lanyard .
the mentioned mine has experienced a non-injury unintentional roof fall outby the 002 working section located between number 7 and number 8 entries approximately 15 cross-cuts outby the working section. the fall is 20 ' wide , 25 ' long and 6 ' high with laminated sandstone and shale . the are was initially supported with 60 '' 3/4 fully grouted rods .
setting up for a job on number 6 kiln burner pipe and parked their   truck along the east side of the bldg . next to number 6 cooler . at approx 2:40am injured was handling a welding lead cord from the back of the truck to another employee . he kicked a pallet out of his way and he stepped down hard , fell and twisted his back and hip . medical treatment with restrictions until full return 5/28/09 .
the fall occurred in the number 3 entry approximately 1600 feet from the surface on 1-a belt roadway . fall is about 40 ' x 20 ' x 2 to 4 feet thick in a remote neutral area and will be timbered off .
employee was setting posts and when employee bent over to pick up a post , felt pain in the lower right portion of back . muscle pull
while stepping down from the dozer , employee stepped in a hole twisting his ankle .
employee stated employee was exiting the connex box storage trailer when employee slipped on snow/ice causing employee to catch self in a split .
employee reported that he was being treated for tendonitis of his left shoulder .
injured employee and witnesses were hanging miner cable and water line at the overcast construction areas . he stated he lifted the cable into a hanger and felt a pulling and burning sensation in his lower abdomen .
on january 17 , 2006 , employee was working on a platform inside the kiln feed hood and allegedly experienced knee pain when someone stepped on the scaffold and caused him to tense up . this incident did not become mine safety and health administration reportable until 7/11/06 , when he had surgery . he did not miss work before that date .
employee was picking up rocks from the road when he stepped on one and sprained his ankle .
employee was roof bolting when a rock 4 '' x 4 '' x 1 '' fell from the roof and struck employee on the upper lip . 5 sutures were required to close the laceration .
employee stated he was helping unload 6 '' metal pipe when he got his finger caught between two pieces of pipe . this resulted in a laceration and fracture to his finger . first lost work day occurred 3 /8/00 .
employee was removing flights from an apron feeder and was using a hook and jarred his shoulder . he visited the clinic ten days later .
employee picked up a 1-1/2 '' water hose with a spray nozzle attached to it and began pulling it up some stairs . as he started pulling , his finger came in contact with the end of the hose clamp . as his finger passed over it , the clamp caused a 1 '' laceration of his left index finger . employee was taken to poh medical center where he was given a tetanus shot and 4 stitches .
mine safety and health administration inspector was making a routine inspection and came upon 2 falls in the old 1st right headings one break inby spad number 657 , one in intersection of number 3 entry and one in intersection of number 5 entry . the fall in number 5 measured approximately   20 x 50 x 8. the fall in number 3 measured approximately   20 x 30 x 8 .
a fall of roof occurred in the south west sub main 6-7 entry , number 30 cross-cut . the roof fall was approximately 20 feet in length x 10 feet in width x 7 feet thick . the area was supported with 6 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
on 06/30/2016 employee sustained a strain to lower back when moving a 55 gallon drum with a cart . employee was initially treated conservatively , when that did not resolve the strain physical therapy ( physical therapy ) was prescribed .
employee was pulling a hydraulic jack around the section power center with 2 other employee's trying to get the jack to the longwall face . employee stated he felt pain in his lower back .
employee was removing a worn bit from a bit block on the cutter drum on the shearer . he was using a chisel to free the bit . when it came free the case slipped and his pinky finger and ring finger came   into contact with a sharp edge on the bit block .
hoist got caught into upper track limit while slinging some pipe . electricians did some trouble shooting . they called g.l. tiley and associates ltd in canada . they got on line and reset the computer .
employee was pulling a 4-wheel cart loaded with cement blocks and stepped in a hole . he twisted his left knee .
stepped on a rock and fell hitting a piece of metal . right foot went under the edge of some metal .
employee completed welding task to area of primary jaw hopper . removed welding hood to locate different area to weld . used welding glove as a shield rather that hood to tack weld area . ( retrained employee ) .
employee stated he was setting down int he lunch room and something got in his eye .
employee was assisting changing puddles on a gravel plant log washer . employee was running main shaft by hand to align next row of mounts for puddle installation . while employee was turning shaft his left middle   finger was pinched between pulley and drive belt .
an unintentional roof fall was found by mine examiner one break inby spad 1039 in the number 7 entry of number 1 southeast mains at approximately 11:45am . fall measured 18 x 24 x 6 1/2 . all approaches have been cribbed/timbered and dangered off . ventilation not interrupted . mobile mining units in non-producing status since august 16,2013 .
employee states he was tightening a bolt when the ratchet he was using slipped off head of nut and pulled back into his tooth causing the tooth to chip and break in half .
the roof started to show signs of failure . the area was then cribbed off .
employee started to drive a split set bolt . he turned on jack leg drill . the split set bolt jumped off driver on jack leg drill resulting in split set bolt falling , striking him on the left side of his face . 12/2/05 : amended to state that this was a medical procedure to stitch wound on face - 1 stitch .
rock fall 2 1/2 breaks inby spad 1278 number 5 entry northeast mains 2nd lift . roof fall was received on 3/8/02 .
employee was working with other employee on changing out a bad kiln trunnion wheel . the wheel was in place and they were putting the caps on with the crane when one of the caps slipped catching his finger under the cap . this broke his small finger in his left hand .
employee was building a deck . when he bent down to get a block , he knocked a rod off another block . the rod came down and cut his right index finger .
employee undercut the highwall causing it to come down on the bucket jolting the loader . the employee was ok that night . employee was sore the next day and asked for a few days off . he went to his doctor and could not identify any issues just sore and limitation of range of motion . the stiffness continued to get worse and we sent to workers compensation on 6/29/2012 .
employee felt sharp pain in lower left side of back and left leg while shoveling around belthead .
on 04/06/2017 , the employee in question reported that they had hyperextended their right knee while relocating a pump but continued working unaffected by the incident . it was later determined that the employee had torn the anterior cruciate ligament and meniscus of the right knee . employee reported to work on restricted duty on 06/08/2017 following corrective procedure on the knee .
employee was moving shovel cable and two hours later had back pain - this became reportable on thursday , december 9 , when the doctor prescribed physical therapy - no restricted duty or lost time .
employee took vehicle to lundgren motors for vehicle repair . as he exited the drivers door he slipped and fell . doctor visit of 3/13/08 indicates hair line fracture with restrictions of 5 lbs lifting . next appointment is 3/27/08 . we will need to file an amended copy at a later date once restrictions have been removed .
employee caught his left arm between rail coupler and supply motor while coupling up rail car that caused a fracture .
employee pulled water truck under fill pipe . he did not apply park brake or have truck in gear . the truck started to drift and employee ran after truck , slipped and fell , injuring his right shoulder and arm   .
employee was holding a square on rebar structure to be welded . witness struck an arc when the mig wire deflected off structure into thigh . hot wire caused burn . employee applied first aid and returned to work   . several days later , thigh became red and irritated , sought medical attention . doctor prescribed antibiotics .
roof fall number 3 entry between break 17 and 18 of the 2-left submain , initial fall 20 ' wide , 40 ' long and 5 ' in height above bolted anchorage ( 42 '' ) no one injured , fell on conveyor belt and belt structure . did not affect ventilation or escapeways .
employee said he backed over a rock while tracking a slope .
changing around pulley to charge broken belt dirt fell into his left ear .
employee was making a splice in number 8 belt . he was cutting belt against a belt square , when he accidentally cut his right index finger .
employee was using 1/2 '' drill , drilling out fluid bed dryer grid . drill jammed , causing the drill and employee's right wrist to continue in a clockwise motion . twisting caused wrist to rapidly go into strained position , causing wrist strain . wrist was immobilized with a splint , thus constituting mine safety and health administration reportability .
the employee was walking from the van to the cic building when he slipped on some ice . he fell backwards and hit his head . he was seen by a doctor and was released to full duty . on 1-24-01 he complained   of having pain and wanted to see a doctor again . at that time the doctor released him to light duty .
using ball peen hammer to drive out connecting link rc160-4 roller chain . piece of pin sheared off and entered right thumb .
a roof fall occurred on 11-14-03 in the rooms from 3 right to 4 right to the number 6 entry at spad no . 751. the fall was 40 ' long , 16 ' wide , 12 ' high , in a 4 way intersection . roof control used was 6 '' fully grouted resin bolts with 2 rows of post . date of development was october 24 , 2003 .
on 1-9-02 , employee was operating a loader , which collided with a truck , due to muddy conditions . at the time of the incident , employee did not seek medical car , but on 1-28-02 , saw doctor who diagnosed a me dial meniscus tear toe the right knee . he was taken   off work on 2-19-02 and will have surgery .
a roof fall was found at 9:45 pm on 10/14/03 at cross-cut 18 entry 3 main south intake . the fall in a four way intersection measured 40' long , 18' wide and 15' high . area had been mined mid 1983 , and was   supported with 6 ' full resin pins . no injury resulted . there is no plan to clean fall up .
on 03/04/17 , mechanic was walking in weld bay to retrieve a piece of pipe when employee ran into the boring bar that was set up on a bucket , striking self in the mouth breaking a tooth . initially seen by onsite pa , on 03/06/17 employee saw a dentist for definitive diagnosis/treatment plan ; given a temp . cap , full work release , instruction to follow up with personal dentist .
3 south longwall set-up . employee removing cover on motor , pulling down on wrench , wrench slipped off bolt and he cut his hand on motor stuffing box . 1 1/2 inch laceration , 5 stitches to close wound .
employee was climbing down the excavator and slipped . he worked until 6/29 and said he was having pain . doctor put employee on restrictions of no lifting more than 10 pounds on 6/29 thus constituting mine safety and health administration reportability .
operator stuck hand into air conditioner fan in top of cab . possible disorientation , refused drug screen at hospital .
employee was using an air impact tool to remove a nut off of a bolt . the air impact tool slipped off of the nut and struck the employee on his right wrist . on 8/05/05 , he was diagnosed with a closed fracture of the right carpal bone . restricted duty : no use of left hand .
employee slipped on a set of steps but did not fall . he began to complain with lower back pain . on 12/9/2010 he was seen by a specialist and released back to work with no injury listed . the employee   did not return to work and sought a second and third opinion and was placed off work by a clinic doctor . employee did not have contact with employer until late april 2011 .
number 37 hoist at buick surface went down due to loss of field excitation on generator . 5:30 am hoist was running again and put back in service . mine safety and health administration was notified when hoist was put back in service .
employee was outside observing air conditioner unit when she turned and lost her footing and fell to ground . used hands to break the fall .
removing motor mount off engine of backhoe # 75. air wrench didn't turn off ; bolt came out causing motor mount to slash right index finger . sutures required .
employee had parked a cat 938 at the service dock for service . he decided to clean his front glass and stepped out onto the top of the wheel fender . as he finished , he grabbed the top of the light housing on the fender and it broke . he jumped to the ground when he lost his balance . originally a knee sprain . did not miss work until 7/7/10 for arthroscopic surgery
employee was attempting to step off a kubota tractor and did not look at where he was stepping . as a result , the employee stepped onto a medium sized rock and rolled his left ankle as he stepped down .
inspecting equipment , stepped on piece of debris twisting right ankle .
employee and partner were using a jackleg drill for installation of rock bolts . while pulling hard on the jackleg to extract the drill steel from the hole the steel suddenly pulled free causing employee to fall backwards and right thumb got caught between the jackleg and a concrete slab causing crushing injuries to the thumb .
employee was exiting truck when he slipped and fell injuring lower back and buttocks .
neutral entry - 5 south submains . man was walking down entry and fell . injured right hand and wrist .
employee was putting mill liners in and was trying to remove spitzers with a hammer and chisel to make room for the last liner. chisel kicked back , hit right lens of his approved safety glasses , causing cracks across the lens depositing particles of safety glass into eye. employee went to er and was given prescription and returned to work with no restrictions .
employee was diagnosed with pneumoconiosis by doc on 9/8/2013 by a chest x-ray . i received the letter by email on october 16 , 2013. employee is not working he been off since december 21 , 2013 he retired january 2013 .
employee was helping the men change and remove screens for the telesmith s-2 screen , when he pulled something in his lower abdomen .
employee was assisting with removal of the front hubs on the 988f front end loader . while they were attempting to place the hub on shop floor with use of overhead crane , employee had placed a lifting strap around hub and to the crane hook , employee was trying to force the hub to set down level and right hand middle finger became pinched between strap and a 90 oil fitting on the hub .
the miner was taking a point in the pillar section . top rock fell on the miner and interrupted normal production for over an hour .
employee was driving a shaft through a plattco valve with a hammer , when he struck his middle finger with the hammer .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 4l section at 35 cross-cut 2-3 entry ( longbreak ) . the fall was approx 60 feet long by 9 ft high . there were no injuries as a result of this incident .
employee was driving a truck and the beaded seat cover kept pressing against the kill switch behind the seat . he reached behind the seat to clear the switch and accidentally stuck middle finger on right   hand in fan resulting in 12 stitches to finger . put on antibiotics for infection and pain reliever ( unable to work for 2 weeks ) .
injury to elbow chronic resulting from repetitive motion os swinging hammer while performing nuclear gauge density testing in soil with very high gravel content
employee was opening a rail car lid when they smashed a finger between the lid and a loading spout .
employee was priming a water pump when he got his clothes against the muffler burning his leg in the thigh area .
employee states while performing normal work duties over several years that her wrists have hurt and now they hurt all the time and wants doctor to look at them . went to doctor and was sent to specialist that said   that she needed surgery to her wrist . she had surgery on 4/5/02 and was released to work her next scheduled workday 4/9/02 with modified duty
an unplanned roof fall occurred at survey station spad no 681 which measured approximately 20 feet by 20 feet by six feet .
roof fell out above roof bolts on n-5 longwall panel . start-up longwall panel pressure riding from start up .
employee was cutting out a flap when he cut his left hand .
he was putting a v belt on the shive , when it rocked on his thumb got pinched .
employee felt light headed and fell to the floor . employee call for help and was move to a chair . we believe employee broke ankle somehow during the fall .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the h-10 panel in the number 5 entry at spad 10129. the fall measured 18 ' wide , 14 ' high and 100 ' long .
employee was rolling a barrel and strained his shoulder . received 10 days of prescription pain .
an unplanned roof fall at the pegasus mine , on number 5 belt . fall came from belt entry over to track entry and stopped where cribs had already been installed . around 2 ' thick at track entry up to 8 ' on belt entry , called mine safety and health administration martin office , and reported it to employee , the morning of fall , other was sent down to check on fall .
employee was using 8 lb sledgehammer to open and close valves and screen boxes in calcination area of plant when she suffered a strain to her right shoulder . she was seen by the plant doctor who issued restrictions and referred her to an orthopedic doctor she was instructed by the orthopedic doctor not to return to work pending results of exam . this resulted in employee losing time from work .
employee was checking pumps in mw intake . while walking from pump at 11 cross-cut , he slipped on wet rock causing him to fall against the rib which caused injury to his right shoulder . employee was a contusion to   his right shoulder .
the employee was assisting in the removal of a 55 gallon drum from a pallet , using a manual drum hoist/dolly . the drum was obstructed , causing the swing arms to move , pinching the employee's finger .
reportable only due to sutures . employee was helping set water dukes at shield number 10 on i-4 longwall when a piece of scale rock fell hitting employee right forearm causing laceration to forearm .
while back drafting pile , hand slipped off steering wheel causing him to strike elbow on steering knob .
employee was operating the truck weigh scales . she stepped out of the office to use the restroom . when she stepped down on the steps she twisted her ankle and fell .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 3 entry face and cross-cut right o 11 right e panel submains . the fall measured 19 wide by 55 feet long and 2 feet to 4 feet high .
found fall on pre-shift fault line area crib and dangered off .
employee was walking back to the fire deck . he reached for the handrail to go up the stairs and bumped the back of his right   hand against the handrail .
employee was taking slack out of the face chain , went to reach for a dog bone ear to put in thats when their foot slipped in between face chain . when they tried to pull foot loose they felt a pop in left knee . employee worked till 8/08/2017 when they went off for surgery .
employee was welding and a piece of steel fell off the lip onto left foot .
employee was cutting a roller bearing apart to perform a failure analysis . he cut through bearing approximately   95 % of the outer race with cutting disc and was using a hammer and chisel to finish separating the material . as he struck the chisel he felt pain in left hand . piece of bearing had broken free and gone through glove cutting index finger . occurred on 6/12/12 - specialist removed piece on 7/12/12
employee was laying a 55 gallon drum , full of oil , down on the ground . he pinched his fingers between the oil drum and a spool of rope .
as the eimco westhead miner was cutting in the number 2 entry of the number 4 section , an ignition occurred that lasted approximately   1 minute and was extinguished with a fire extinguisher . no injuries/damage .
employee was fitting a conveyor belt on palletizer number 1 at packing house . when he pulled the belt he pinched his right ring finger between the belt and roller .
employee hit soft spot in road , was jostled in the seat of the haul truck , and felt immediate pain in his low back . seen at the emergency room , referred to back specialist who put the employee on restricted duty and prescribed physical therapy .
roof fall , cross-cut 20+02 , 1 left pine gulch panel approx . 20 ' wide , 20 ' long , 5 ' high . area was timbered off . fall did not affect ventilation . pulled approx . 4 bolts .
during power washing project on the boom of marion drag line , employee became over heated and allegedly passed out
employee was operating a mechanical scaler when he heard a loud boom . scaler caught on fire and mine was evacuated at that time . it is believed that this was an electrical flash fire and self-extinguished in less than 30 minutes . we notified mine safety and health administration at the time because it was thought we had a reportable mine fire . upon further investigation , it revealed it probably was not .
cutting piece of steel when slag flew in eye . prescription eyeglasses without side shields and cutting goggles were being worn .
employee was working on the   muffler of a peter built tractor . he had the passenger side door open and standing in the door way putting the top clamp on . he started to get down when a rubber boot from inside the cab fell down under his feet causing him to trip and fall to the ground . he sprained his right ankle , landed on his left buttock and broke his left wrist .
employee was in the process of putting a derailed mantrip back onto the track . while using a lifting jack and bar he experienced some pain in his right lower back and right abdomen . recently he star ted a series of physical therapy treatments for this injury .
while trying to cement casing , employee was making cement , he clipped an open razor knife to his belt . when he bent down to get a bucket of soda ash , he cut his left forearm on open blade .
employee was sitting on towmotor when he started coughing and passed out falling off forklift
employee was climbing a ladder when his foot slipped and he hit his right knee on the rail car
4 south right   section employee tied bolter cable up with a nylon rope. a rib strap was used to place rope behind rib strap and to tie bolter cable up . they activated the cable reel pickup the tension , cut the rope and the cable struck him in the mouth and cut his upper lip . sutures to close wound .
cleaning fuller multicones . bumped shovel causing lime to fall getting in eyes .
conveyor on wash-separator plant stopped . employee lifted guard to check - without shutting off power . he touched conveyor it started catching tip of right hand index finger crushed tip of finger .
employee's hand was pinned between metal screen deck and screen side plate as he was attempting to manually position the deck for installation . the deck lodged against material on the walkway while   suspended by hoist and come-along .
number 2 unit , number 6 entry , cross-cut 38. slip and water was present ( was already cribbed when fell ) . length 25 ' , width 18 ' and thickness 9 ' .
employee was welding with a crack in his welding helmet .
parked on a hill on a mantrip . before he exited the mantrip , another mantrip hit him .
the man was sitting on the mantrip . as the mantrip began to move , he noticed the lunch bag on top of the mantrip was rubbing against the roof . he stated he told the operator to stop and reached for the bag . the operator did not hear him and continued to tram . the mantrip struck a rock causing the man's arm to momentarily be pinched between the mantrip and the roof .
employee was pushing 7/8 '' top roof bolt and stick of glue into bolt hole when he felt pain in his neck , right shoulder and right forearm . he was assigned to restricted duty .
injured was dismounting a 930 loader . his foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground . injured tried to catch himself with his left arm and hand . injured jammed his hand into the ground resulting in a fracture to the left forearm bone .
employee stated he was helping unload number 4 cable from the scoop bucket onto a supply car and as he picked up a loop of cable he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . first lost work day occurred on   3-5-03 .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee . he last worked on 7/1/2010 when he retired . no % disability at this time .
employee was operating a beaver drill drilling a hole in the roof to install a bolt for a monorail hanger . the drill steel caught an existing bolt which caused the beaver drill steel to stop rotating , twisting employee right arm . this resulted into a strain to his right elbow for which he is now receiving therapy treatments .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 10-2-03 at approximately   1:13 pm dimensions of fall estimated at 20 ft by 20 ft by 4 ft high . location was at 3 east mains , entry at survey station 6314 .
employee was training a new haul truck driver . employee was sitting in the jump seat next to door . haul truck encountered a rough road condition and the employee bumped his shoulder against door of truck .
employee was helping other employees move a vacuum pump which had been loaded on a 4 wheel cart . while pulling and pushing he hurt his back . first lost work day was 1/2/01 .
employee was completing a stopping in the number 9 entry out by the 002 section . he stumbled over some concrete blocks . while falling , he caught himself with his left hand . he completed the stopping and finished his shift .
employee was standing on a ladder , one foot on the ladder and the other foot in the generator room . in an attempt to pull the breaker , he slipped and fell approximately 5 feet , injuring his back and hip .
bagging micron sand involves twisting and swinging of arms . pain in right elbow .
employee was operating a loader . he hit a chug hole while his body was twisted to look at a truck , causing pain in hip and lower back .
employee was preparing to install a mill hammer shank when the shank tipped over smashing his right thumb .
employee stated while riding a mac8 to the section , the driver backed into and dislodged a timber which fell striking employee on the hardhat . employee did not loose consciousness , refused backboard and was transported to the surface by emergency medical technician with a cervical collar in place . employee was transported to hospital via ambulance and diagnosed with a concussion and given one week off per protocol .
on january 7 , 2016 , employee assisted with the changing of a bit and deck bushing on a rotary drill . employee felt a pinch in employee's abdomen after pushing with employee's left leg . on january 18 , 2016 employee received a diagnosis of a left inguinal hernia .
employee was attempting to move a 5hp flygt pump from a water hole that had been pumped down . the employee lifted the pump about waist high when he lost his grip on the pump handle and the pump landed on the top of his left foot resulting in the fracture of a small bone in his foot .
injured was operating the mantrip taking his crew outside when the accident occurred while tramming the mantrip by the 5 headgate mother drive his right arm got caught between mantrip and motor   for belt head that was setting by track . he was taken to came general where surgery was done to repair injuries . diagnosed with multiple injuries including fractures above and below elbow a
employee was working on 3001 down hole drill and as he was climbing down off the drill his foot slipped and fell , striking his right knee . restricted     duty beginning 7-12-00 from job class .
assisting with motor repair burned left hand with acetylene torch when cutting away extra metal from new adjustment screw appeared to be 3rd degree the work area was not cleared enough to allow   more space
operator was on top at tb 1313 tank wash out a screen box . he was using a water hose with 170 degree farenheit water . he layed the hose down with water running to do another task and the water hose whipped and sprayed him with hot water
employee was working at feeder when he turned around . employee felt pain in lower back . when pain would not ease , employee left mine to go to the hospital .
rock fall on intake spad number 904 to 905 . 4 ft thick x 20 ft wide x 80 ft long cross cut .
employee bent over to pick up wiper bracket and felt pain in his back . initially refused treatment , sought treatment 6/30/2005 with company physician resulting in 25 lb lift limit restriction .
injured employee was troubleshooting a baghouse tipping valve . after isolation and removing material ( lime dust ) employee moved in for a closer look through an approximately   1/2 '' high x 8 '' wide opening in the valve . unexpectedly , dust came out of the opening and hit the employee in the face resulting in dust getting into the employees left eye , medical treatment , and prescription medication .
cutting underbelting with knife - on ground - not paying attention - laceration right knee .
employee barring a rock from behind a rockbolt mat , mat struck him in the cheek . laceration that required stitches .
while checking the oil level at the number 3 jameson pump , standing on a pipe , employee slipped and tried to catch himself by reaching out and felt pain in his left arm . he was taken to the emergency room and diagnosed with a dislocated shoulder .
employee was helping foreman weld and repair roll plant . employee was not welding , he had shaded safety glasses on , foreman was welding . injured employee received weld flash that evening around 10:00pm .
employee states that he was working on his knees , he raised up into standing position and felt his knee pop .
employee was dragging an 11/2 `` washdown hose along the cat walk for the silo belt when he felt a pain in his abdomen he continued to work , then through repeated trauma he was diagnosed with a hernia on 5/1 5/01 which required   surgery to repair . lost work days began 5/15/01
roof fall , . intersection of number 3 entry of the 1-right submain at break # 6. fall approximately 30 feet long 20 feet wide and 8 feet high . no one injured , no equipment involved .
employee experienced a sharp pain in his left shoulder while on his break . he stated he had been shoveling product spillage right before he went on break . employee attributes the injury to the shoveling of   product . physician diagnosis : left shoulder strain .
while rockdusting 10 belt with hose , he was walking backwards and stepped on a small bottom ruler which caused him to twist his left knee and fall down .
employee attempted to move a 2,500 lb pallet of novacite with his arms down a roller caster table . in his attempt the employee heard a pop at his right elbow and pain .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on panel # 3. break number 1 in the number 5 and 6 entries . size of fall was estimated to be 90' long x 20 ' wide x 8-9' high   area had been supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts with supplemental support consisting of 10 ' cable bolts no injuries , ventilation was interrupted , primary escapeway was blocked . fall was cleaned up ventilation restored , escapeway re-established
a roof fall occurred in the number 9 coal seam in the 3rd southwest submains at cross-cut number 80 in the number 5 ( belt ) entry . no injuries or ventilation short circuit occurred as a result of the roof fall .
employee suffered a lower back sprain when the track vehicle he was on was struck by a mantrip . the first day he missed work due to the injury was 1/20/2011 .
employee was walking past number 19 630 scoop parked in number 2 entry . e-20 section when he brushed against a metal burr sticking out from the scoop battery frame causing a laceration to the back of the right hand . employee was wearing leather meta miner gloves .
at 8:45am employee was remodeling the birdhouse ( load out shack ) . he shot his left index finger with a staple gun .
two miners were working inside an electrical control box while the generator was running . although the main power disconnects had been shut off , there was still an electrical load on the line due to improper wiring of the circuit . the miner was burned from an electrical flash and ensuing fire when the other miner attempted to connect the live wire to a breaker box .
employee was attempting to move a belt roller when it slipped out of his hand and his right little finger was caught between the roller and an installed crib . the resulting injury was a laceration which   required sutures to close .
employee ( lab tech . ) stepped out of lab door to walkway to walk to scales , boot slid on bar grating ramp and he struck the handrail with his right   knee . employee never left work and continued work every day . appointment   with company doctor 2/2/05 resulted in a mri 2/3/05 , the results were read only today . he has a cracked patella right   knee and has an appointment   with an orthopedic doctor in a few days . will keep working .
the injured was walking through the mine and tripped on a tie that was covered with some rockdust . he slipped and fell breaking his wrist when he struck his hand out to break fall .
employee blasting at florida rock when a rock ricocheted off the conveyer system and hit him in the upper left chest area .
employee was operating off side roof bolter . he was starting his teel against top when it kicked out . it struck an lacerated his right cheek . laceration was approximately one and a half inches long and required   10 stitches .
while walking down the longwall face , struck head against shield jamming neck . individual saw doctor august 7,2002 scheduled for mri . revisit to doctor on december 9,2002 to get mri results . now needs surgery on neck for disc herniation . surgery scheduled for 12-17-02 .
employee stated a piece of metal entered his left eye as he was grinding handrail . employee states he was wearing safety glasses . medical treatment .
employee was using a knife to cut plastic pipe . while resting plastic pipe on his left leg . the knife penetrated the plastic pipe and penetrating the employee's   clothing then penetrating inside of employee left thigh   .
the employee complained of having a sore left knee and sore elbows from stacking 50 lb bags of sand .
injured was sitting on the bench in the locker room . he accidentally sat on a chain to a basket the chain came loose the basket dropped and hit him on the top of his head .
employee dropped water bottle in cat d30 haul unit air condition vent hole , while retrieving the bottle , employee injured right ring finger tip when finger made contact with blower fan . while getting first aid treatment in the office , the employee fainted and broke his front tooth when he hit the desk .
roof fall at 1 main c between 102 and 103 cross-cuts on the number 5 mainline belt conveyor . roof fall is at 40 ' long , 22 ' wide , and from 0-4' high . roof was laminated slate and appeared to deteriorate due to moisture   . area was developed june 1968 with cont . miner and supported with 6 ' conventional roof bolts . some posts were also set in this area .
mr hamilton filed an alleged occupational pneumoconiosis claim on 2/27/09 , claim no . 2009005249. his last day worked was 8/11/09 due to an injury . he received a 5 % op award on claim number   2005044352 submitted on 6/10/05 , e-document no . 196058. received notice of this claim on 3/12/09 .
employee fell face first when he slipped/tripped down a bank to a water valve . employee was observing the loading of the water when he noticed the 3 '' water hose connector was coming loose from the stand pipe on the water truck . he hurried down a bank to shut off the valve when he slipped and fell onto the ground . he sustained a concussion/laceration to the forehead , neck sprain , restricted duty .
employee was moving grates and slipped and fell onto steel beam injuring his back and left side .
the employee was replacing drive belts on the sand screw . he was standing at the end of the screw when he reached down to unscrew the bolt on a guard . he felt a pop on the left side of his rib cage . he reported it , but did not feel the need to go to the doctor until 8/13 . he received a shot for pain on 8/13 , and another for inflammation on 8/17 . released to full duty on 8/20 .
an unplanned roof fall occurred outby number 5 neutral entry near old number 6 belt spad 3037. the fall was approximately 90 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' to 6 ' . no injuries were report and no equipment was damaged .
while employee was drilling , a rock fell striking employee on left shoulder , causing bruising to shoulder .
employee was in the surface shop installing a transmission in a underground mantrip . the transmission became hung and wouldn't go in any farther so he was pulling at it trying to get it to free up . all of a sudden it came loose and caused the employee to fall backwards , twisting his knee and striking his elbow on a metal cover . he started missing 9/19/2007 .
employee slipped on ice while walking between office and shower house at lowry mine . this is a reoccurrence of this injury . it was not reportable before . employee woke up 8/11/10 in pain with a swelled knee , continued to work rest of week , then went on light duty 8/11/10 . then went off work 8/19/10 .
employee was operating roof bolter . his glove got caught in drill stell , glove twisted and lacerated hand requiring 4 stitches . between index finger and thumb on right hand .
loose conductor cord hanging from the bottom of a conveyor structure in the travelway causing it to catch a lube truck and the electrical conductor cord that was hooked to a welder tripped the employee , wrapped around his right leg and drug him down the travelway approximately 50 ' .
employee was stepping onto a belt and slipped and fell onto the belt , landing on his right knee . that evening his knee was hurting so he went to the doctor and was diagnosis with a knee sprain .
a fall of the roof occurred on the number 3 unit , number 1 entry in the 2nd cross-cut outby the dumping point in the 3rd southwest subpanel . the fall was 30' long , 18.5' wide , and 5' thick . no ventilation , equipment or passage   of men were affected .
employee and other coworkers had installed a belt lay on the number   2 unit . after completing move of the tailpiece , the left side of cm water hose needed to be rerouted over the new section of belt . employee had the end of the water hose in his hand and was climbing over the belt . when climbing belt his foot slipped allowing left forearm to strike the belt structure resulting in contusion .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 4 entry of the 2 mains butt , 1 cross-cut inby spad # 11274. the fall was 60 ' long , 20' wide and 42 `` high . no equipment was involved . the area was cribbed , posted and dangered off . this section was abandoned and equipment pulled out before the fall .
employee was attempting to unplug a pressure tap on the kiln pre-heat cyclone when hot material blew out and struck the employee . the employee removed his personal protective equipment , he found that he had suffered burns to his forearms .
a maintenance millwright has been diagnosed with a pleural plaque . though pleural plaques are biological indicators of past asbestos exposure , current and past exposure data and sampling data have not reflected a risk of asbestos exposure .
while trying to load a mandoor into a battery scoop bucket the employee felt a sharp pain in his right shoulder .
employee strained his neck when he drove his truck over a pothole . on 9/24 the mine received verification of additional medical treatment besides the diagnostic visit and release to work .
the employee was bolting number 9 entry ; putting strap on holder when a piece of rock fell , striking him on the head and shoulder . went to doctor on 4-10-02 , worked light duty until 4/18 . went back to doctor on 1 8th . first day missed work 4-18-02 .
employee tripped and fell walking from parking area to bottom . he hung his foot in something didn't know what it was . he hit his left shoulder and ribs .
employee hit head on half-header ; he fell down on his right arm .
employee was using a sledge hammer to beat caps out of crusher . a foreign material from either caps or sledge hammer entered employee's right hand between thumb and index finger . he was taken to hospital and was referred to hand specialist . work duty is modified . surgery scheduled for 4/20/06 .
employee was replacing pump - pulling water line up on bank , which was full of water . the person next to our employee either let go or lost his grip and all the weight of the 6 '' line was on our employee   .
while replacing damaged conveyor belting , old belt tore unexpectedly , striking employee in stomach . initial diagnosis was bruised abdomen , follow up consultation indicated 2 fractured ribs . released to unrestricted duty .
employee was making his weekly examination of 002 - mobile mining unit intake air course when he discovered a roof fall in number 5 entry one break to the right of survey spad 760 in south mains . fall was timbered and dangered off , did not interrupt ventilation and was not on active section .
employee was attempting to `` walk '' an atrs jack from a location where it was removed to the coal rib . the employee became unbalanced and the jack caused him to fall . the jack fell across his leg resulting in contusions to the employee's upper left leg and thigh . ( medical only ) .
the employee stated his injury occurred when he was attempting to rotate a 50 lb . chute liner plate in the surface crusher . the employee said the strain occurred when he tried to lift the liner plate using a scraper hook . the employee said he misjudged the weight of the liner plate . note : the employee reported the injury on 3/30/05 .
the james creek emergency escape hoist for the primary escapeway of the longwall section 060 and 2-east to james creek did not function in automatic mode when inspected . all men were removed for the affected area until a qualified person was stationed at the escape hoist building to operate in the event of emergency .
employee was loosening a bolt with a ratchet when ratchet slipped mashing his left primary finger between ratchet and wall .
employee was exiting his haul truck . when he reached the bottom of the ladder . he stepped onto a large stone that moved this causing him to twist his ankle .
a fall of roof occurred measuring 0-10 ' high x 12 ' wide trapping the mobile roof support . the ventilation was not disturbed and the fall will not be cleaned up . the fall occurred on the pillar section 001 mobile mining unit number 5 pillar block at ss number 8425 .
employee was shoveling salt from under the cage paktor belt and experienced a sharp pain in lower back .
associate was shoveling around skidsteer that was stuck when he got stuck in the clay around him and cut himself on the skidsteer . associate received stitches in the arm .
rock fell through a wire mesh , hitting employee on the head/shoulder . few minutes later he felt faint , tingling in right arm . cervical spine strain . post treatment infection resulted in hospitalization and lost time .
employee stated that he was roof bolting when he sat the drill head of the roof bolter on his right foot resulting in a crushing injury to the middle toe . the skin was sewn over the very end of his toe at the nail . the steel toe actually mashed the end of the toe .
employee was performing maintenance work on a belt drive take up unit . he was climbing off the take up when his foot caught in the structure and he fell . his foot was twisted when he fell because it remained   caught in structure . there was no damage or impairment to any equipment or to the operation . employee did not maintain solid footing while climbing down . no other factors involved .
employee had loaded a rock duster he walked back to get water off of scoop , the scoop was moving and rolled over the end of his right foot .
was bagging hydrated lime with a protective hood on . he says he bent over and the hood was caught on something an dit pulled off his head and at the same time the start bottom was pushed blowing   hydrate into his eyes . temporary loss of vision due to hydrate in eyes . 4 days with blurred vision in 1 eye .
piece of steel fell down between tray and head of roof bolter . employee reaching to get steel while raising pinner head catching his ring finger on his right hand and cutting the tip of his finger   off .
a roof fall occurred in the 3rd east main entries at cross-cut number 31 in number 6 entry . the fall measured 35' x 19' x 8 ' . the fall was caused by a hidden slip in the mine roof . the area was mined in may 2007
employee is reporting inflammation of the neck , cause unknown . first day off work 2/7/2007 , awaiting doctor review to determine if work relatedness can be ascertained . at this time it appears to be an occupational illness .
roof fall -- 70 ' in by the survey station number 1042 in the cross cut between number 4 entry and number 3 entry on the 2nd northwest mains 3,400 feet from our section . this is an area where we pulled back from . it measured 6 ' thick by 16 ' wide by 35 ' in length . it is not affecting ventilation . we will not be cleaning the fall up , we are dangering it off . no employees or equipment was involved .
class b reader interpretation of 1/0 on xray the filing of this 7000-1 is not to be construed as an admission by the operator that an occupational respiratory disease or illness has occurred
fixing broken conveyor belt , he was pulling to roll up the conveyor belt and felt pain in his left shoulder .
employee was operating a roof bolting machine . he was tightening a roof bolt into the top . stone fell from top hitting him on the side of his head lacerating his ear . there was damage or impairment to the mining operation or the equipment . the injury did not involve job skills , proficiency , training , attitude , protective items or protective devices .
while drilling out broken exhaust studs with airdrill , wind blew fine shavings into eye behind safety glasses .
while conducting his weekly examination a fireboss identified a roof fall in the return on detour mains in the number 1 entry one break inby spad # 621. the fall was approximately 20' x 20' x 4'-5' high and was supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts the area was mined approximately 8/1/11 . the area will not be cleaned up the area has been dangered off and timbers have been set .
the employee was exiting her pickup at the 4600 dragline where she works , when she went to close the door , she realized the seatbelt in the way and went to grab it , which caused her to catch her right hand in the door as it closed .
employee was cutting timber on saw when he tripped/ slipped and fell striking his left knee on the concrete floor .
employee was helping load high-line cable in a flatcar , to be moved , when he got his foot caught between an old piece of belt rubber laying in roadway and scoop bucket , causing a bruise to top of left ankle . he was treated with a cold pack and driven home .
employee dropped the drill pot on his right foot .
roof fall measuring approximately 18 ' wide by 50 ' long by 4-8 ' high found during weekly travel of bleeder system . located approximately 140 ' in by survey station # 2359. no persons , equipment or ventilation affected . will not be cleaned up . area will be timbered off . reported by phone to mine safety and health administration .
the employee was hammering out the burner nozzle on number 5 kiln when he felt a pull in his right shoulder .
a roof fall was found in number 6 entry 2500 ' outby the face , one break inby spad # 7993. the fall was 20' wide x 40' long x 4 ' to 6 ' high . the fall has been dangered off and timbers have been set . this area was bolted with 4 ' resin bolts and will not be cleaned up .
employee started operating the hitachi excavator with ramer hydraulic hammer in 3/1999 . employee complained of pain and burning and eventually had bleeding in his stool . on 3/7/00 employee was diagnosed by the co doctor as having a tear or fissure inside the rectum surgery is scheduled at which time the surgeon has stated he will determine whether the injury is work related or not
the mine experienced an unintentional roof fall outby the active section on the parallel leatherwood mains at cross-cut # 45. the fall is approximately 160 ' long and 5 ' to 6 ' thick . the roof in the area is layered shale . this area had been permanently supported with 4 ' fully grouted rods . the fall extended through the intersection from number 3 to number 6 entries .
the employee stated he ran into a hole in the road at the number 1 switch back curve . the employee stated he felt pain in his lower back . he sought medical attention that day and returned to work under modified duty until the 25th at which time he was placed off work . employee missing work on 1-25-13 . on 3/19/14 the employee was awarded 5 % permanent partial disability as a result of the injury .
employee had pain in right elbow prior to this time frame . he then noticed pain in his right elbow while swinging a hammer to strike a knocker wrench . he reported on 7/26/00 that he was experiencing continued pain . he went for medical exam and was diagnosed with strain to lower arm , but able to perform reg duties . 10/4/00 doctor prescribed physical therapy and work restrictions .
while installing a conventional roof bolt in the rib , a methane feeder was ignited in 22 headgate , entry 2 , cross-cut 20 to 21. apparently friction between the roof bolt and the plate ignited the methane   . the flame was immediately extinguished with water .
employee was plugging a motor in a battery and the cable shorted out .
employee was cutting a band on a carton of paper . when band broke , knife slipped and struck other arm .
employee was working on the longwall face as a fully trained shieldman and picking up stones in the shield line . he felt pain in abdomen . he continued to work and while shoveling felt more pain . started losing time as of 1-17-15 .
employee was cutting core , placed rock under running blade . saw pulled rock and hand into blade , nicking the left index finger knuckle . stitches required and employee released to restricted duty .
employee was executing repairs to a komatsu pc5500 hydraulic excavator , during the course of the repair the automatic fire suppression systems was activated and discharged fire extinguishers , employees were covered in the fire suppression material resulting to irritation to eyes and respiratory system
when cleaning out the grizzly on a feeder the employees right hand , 4th finger was hit between a rock and the grizzly bar . the employee's finger sustained injury - bleeding and tissue damage .
employee was walking around the head of the continuous miner when he hit his hard hat on a torque tension roof bolt , thus knocking his hard hat off of his head . he replaced the hard hat on his head and went back to work . he continued to work up until his doctor took him off work on 07/29/2011 .
pc-038 had a broken pin on the 480 volt dust receptacle cover . as employee tried to remove the bolts that held the gear mount in place he discovered that the nuts on the inside of the power center were turning . employee had not de-energized the power center before trying to remove the access panel. while moving the access panel the 480 volt primary side came in contact with ground .
while breaking lose a bolt , the wrench slipped , causing hand to swing into a broken weld . result was eight stitches .
the employee was using a cutting torch to cut off bolts from the dozer blade . he leaned to his left to see better , when a hot metal spark bounced off of the dozer blade and got under his safety glasses   and went into his left eye .
employee was building a stopping using 6 '' solid concrete blocks . while lifting a block and placing it on the 8th row , employee felt a pain in lower abdomen . employee later went to a surgeon who found a hernia in employee's groin . this will require surgery . employee began missing work on 01/09/2018 .
employee was driving mack coal truck loaded down a steep grade when another coal truck following him lost control and ran into rear of his truck causing this accident . employee got mild concussion of head due to impact of truck hitting him causing moderate damage to truck .
employee was walking and stepped in a hole .
elevator went down at 12:20 am . the elevator was on the bottom and would not come to top . the fault screen showed motor overload . to fix the problem took a slate bar an pried out a piece of sheet metal that was caught under the bottom of an outside ring at the base of the shaft .
on 5-18-16 employee was lifting an auger and twisting around , and felt pain in back . employee declined medical treatment and remained at work . on 6-6-16 employee lifted something and aggravated lower back . employee remained at work that day and went to the doctor the next day ( 6-7-16 ) . employee is currently working on light duty .
a piece of metal came loose from a chipping hammer and became lodged in employee's left hand between his thumb and first finger . a coworker was using the hammer to dislodge material from a feed plate on a scalping screen and he was standing next to him . the small piece of metal was not removed because of the depth in his hand .
employee tried to hold rolled up button box electrical cord with his arm . too much weight causing sprain to left arm .
employee was using a utility knife to cut a piece of grease line off a bulk roll , the blade of the knife came out of the holder a cut the employees right thumb ( employee is left handed ) . the employee received three stitches in his right thumb and returned to duty .
after helping filter operator hook up a water line to slurry pumps , employee stood up and jammed his head into the dilution water line . employee went to the doctor and was prescribed physical therapy .
employee moving chute liner ; liner dropped on left foot . employee refused medical treatment ; discomfort continued , requested medical attention 11/2 - x-ray showed fracture of toe .
set up a tri stand - opened it up - pulled his right side of his chest area .
two olt truck drivers closed tailgate . one driver got fingers caught between the tailgate and the truck body . one finger was smashed and the tip of another one cut off .
employee was cleaning breakroom , which involved moving furniture to clean behind it . when the refrigerator was moved , the employee felt a pain in the middle right side of her back .
employee was on top of the incline conveyor to unplug a bag jam on the conveyor . when he removed the bag from the photo eye , the conveyor started pulling his leg in the head wheel and breaking his ankle .
east 3 59 block number 4 heading 4-way mobile mining unit 007 . 18 ft wide x 18 ft long x 12 ft high . type of support : cable bolts with 8 '' x 8 '' plates , 6 ft resin with 8 '' x 8 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall .
employee was cutting a 1/2 '' seal-tite with a band saw . the blade went through the metal and cut his finger . ( middle finger , left hand ) .
employee performing hand scaling underground with a scaling bar and felt pain in right elbow . employee was sent for medical treatment on 3/14/18 and was placed on restricted duty at that time for elbow sprain .
employee strained left shoulder while operating a front end loader , loading haul trucks with excavated limestone in the pit .
the injured employee was working on a speed reducer at number 14 belt drive . while turning the reducer employee got his hand caught in the gears , resulting in a laceration on the top of his right hand , approximately   3 '' long .
employee opened the back of his machine ( loader ) and was stung by several bees .
freezing rain had caused some ice build-up on the scale office ramp . the dispatcher was leaving , when walking down the ramp she slipped and fell on her left hip . ( did not become mine safety and health administration recordable until 11/19/08 . )
miner suffered a lower left back muscle strain . miner was on knees moving cams to set screen deck following normal procedure on a rotex sizing machine and reported sudden back pain . miner was experienced in this task . miner was wearing assigned personal protective equipment . possible factors include muscle fatigue from screen changing , inadequate rest periods or stress of coming erect from kneeling .
employee was under the headache rock of ( number 1174 ) a 50 ton end dump . he was bending over the battery box and going to jump start this truck when he stood up his hard hat fell off and he hit his head . he had a knot on his head .
bolter operator was bolting roof in number 2 entry on 1st right section . top was real hard and bit tore up . he was knocking the bit off the drill steel to change it when he struck his left index finger   between bolter and drill steel bruising finger . he was off 2 days .
attempted to change 3/8 '' pressure hose to the water activation solenoid on 203 shield on the 24w longwall face . employee did not turn off or relieve pressure to the hose , and while pulling staple lock out the hose released and hit employee in the mouth , resulting in impact injuries to the mouth area . injury did not result from problem with mining machines , training , personal protective equipment , or compliance issues .
employee was inside the cone crusher inspecting the crusher for a problem and opened the hatch door to let some fresh air into the inspection area , after several minutes he forgot the hatch was open and leaned back and fell through the door and fell approximately 10 feet .
employee was helping another member perform maintenance on a coal truck . employee struck his right thumb with a hammer causing a laceration that required suturing .
employee was using a pry bar to lift a cylinder of abco conveyor to stop it from leaking . the pry bar slipped off the cylinder and hit him . it caused a cut in front of right ear .
rock rolled out of a shot and went under hauler . when loader operator picked up the hauler to set it off the rock , the bucket slipped , shaking the hauler and employee .
employee was in the process of pulling electrical cable out of the walkway near the section power center when he slipped and fell backward onto a high voltage cable sled resulting in a bruised kidney   and lumbar strain to his back .
employee was helping connect surface delay caps in a blasting operation when a rock fell off highwall striking his right hand .
vacuuming up cement with hose off vacuum   truck   cement got into his boots and under his socks , creating burns . he didn't notice the burns until he was home in the evening , though he felt some irritation during the day . he did not report incident until 6/1/05 and at such time we sent him for medical treatment .
at 0700 the employee was found laying on the floor in the control room in building 12 unresponsive . the supervisor on shift was notified as well as 911. the employee was transported to the hospital and later released ( same day ) and returned to full duty next day with no restrictions . employee has pre-existing , non work related illness .
employee was riding mantrip to section . mantrip hit kink in track , bounced employee and he landed on a hammer and light .
employee injured his right bicep on monday morning at the start of the shift ( 5 am ) when he was lifting a 4-inch pump flexible discharge line and attempting to take a tight bend out of the line . he felt a pain in his right elbow . he had an mri that diagnosed a right distal bicep rupture . employee had surgery to repair the rupture and has been working his regular job .
at 7:22 am a roof fall was discovered by an examiner in the main east at cross-cut 83 at old 4a header between number 5 and number 6 entries . the fall measured 18 ' wide x 30 ' long x 8 ' high. there were no injuries or witnesses . also no disruptions to ventilation or passage of personnel . the main east belt line was affected .
during plant setup employee walked to back of crawler to do something , stood up too quickly and hit his head on ripper .
employee was attempting to tighten hand wheel type brake on rail car . straining to tighten brake , employee pulled a muscle in his back .
employee was climbing ladder onto equipment , slipped and fell to ground landing hard on left foot .
employee was adjusting spring on overhead garage door . employee should have secured spring with a clamp to prevent spring from expending but did not . spring broke loose and hit employee on hand   .
preparations were underway to change the ropes on a dragline . injured employee was removing a lifting cable hung inside the house on the wall . a metal t bracket was also hanging as the cable was removed   . the t bracket was dislodged from its hanging support as the lifting cable was being lowered . t bracket struck the injured employee on the right shin and landed on right foot fracturing it .
while attaching the cylinder to the boom arm the supporting cable slipped . employee's   right hand was int he pinch point . middle finger on right hand was crushed partially amputated .
changing wheel parts . after replacing broken flange on back side of wheel and remounting the tire employee was in the process of airing the tire when the outside wheel hardware failed . the tire had approximately 80 psi   when the failure occurred .
the area was clear of all material and free from obstructions , trip hazards and tools . employee was closing a rail car door . a railroad bar is necessary for this task . the bar slipped from the door latch   causing him to lose his balance , twisting his right ankle .
employee was walking across rebar mat when he slipped and stepped through top mat scratching his shin which then became infected .
three employees were changing inserts on circuit 4 feeder breaker when coal dust flashed causing burns to all three employees . employees were transported to campbell county memorial hospital and later flown to the western states burn center in greeley colorado for the best immediate care with non life threatening injuries .
employee dropped a piece of steel on her left middle finger .
employee was roof bolting at the time of this incident . he stated that he pried down a rock with a prybar and that another rock fell and struck the pry bar flipping it up striking him in the chin and   lacerating it .
employee was bolting # 2r . a piece of draw rock fell , striking him on the right leg , just above the ankle . the impact fractured the bone located in that area . this occurred on mobile mining unit section 009 . ( fractured fibia )
attaching drawbar for timber truck to locomotive , caught `` right '' middle finger between pin and frame of timber truck - lacerating tip of `` right '' middle finger .
evening shift miner operator was assisting maintenance personnel in installing a connecting link in conveyor chain . as he struck the link with a hammer a piece of metal hit the right side of his   head .
employee was walking down the entry when employee rolled right ankle in a hole , causing employee to fall .
while employee was pulling a rock with come-alongs the chain slipped off rock and caused employee to fall off the stageloader .
while performing clean up duties , a rock fell off of the conveyor striking the employee in the top of the ear . employee was wearing full personal protective equipment , including a hardhat , safety glasses and steel toe boots . sutures were required for the top of the ear .
employee was checking fuel in side tank on salem auger and stepped down and caught his left leg before the fuel tank and auger carriage on the fuel tank straps . bruised his left leg in the calf part .
traveling through man door and hit side of mandoor .
unplanned roof fall above anchorage zone in 7th north west butt number 2 room outby spad number 1692 , two cross-cuts in an intersection . approximately   20' wide x 30' long , fell about 42 '' to 48 '' high . anchorage zone was 42 '' fully grouted resin bolt .
a roof fall meas . approximately   20 ' x 50 ' x 6-8 ' occurred on the 2nd left section between number 6 and number 7 cc . inby spad # 7398. the fall will not be cleaned up
employee was working on top of a bench placing a marker stake near a highwall when the ground under him collapsed , dropping him to a muck pile .
employee was standing on the platform of a komatsu front end loader when he was attacked by a wasp . employee was holding onto the handhold swatting at the wasp when he lost his balance and fell ~6 ' to the ground suffering contusions to his hip and back and arm strain from holding onto the handhold . the post-accident drug test results revealed that the employee tested positive for tetrahydrocannabinol and opiates .
employee was unloading rock dust bags off truck . felt pain in lower back .
employee was using pocket knife to cut 3/8 '' plastic tubing to be used at job sight . knife slipped while cutting lube coming in contact with his left hand cutting his index finger approximately   from the knuckle   to the tip .
employee was driving scraper down a hill ; back end of scraper slid around ; bowl of scraper dropped to the ground ; machine rolled over on its side . employee reported soreness in his legs ; he went to the emergency room to be checked out ; he only missed one day of work .
inundation occurred at the 1st south panel seals which are off the main east intake . foreman found during daily inspection of the mine . he walked over to check the number 4 seal when he saw water coming out of the 4 '' riser . soon after he found water coming out of the 4 '' u-tube in the number 1 seal . mine evacuated . mine safety and health administration 103-k order issued ; lifted 6/8/04 .
a unintentional roof fall has occurred along old 5 north return at break number 20 in the number 2 entry ( return ) . the fall measures 30 ' long x 20 ' wide x 4 1/2 ft high . the area was bolted with 4 ft resin . there were no injuries or property damage reported .
pulling nails from concrete form boards . nail head broke causing employee to slip and cut forearm on exposed nailhead .
employee was climbing 8 x 12 access ladder ( fixed ) when he struck his right knee cap on a rung . employee was offered medical at the time incident was reported and refused . approximately   9pm that evening employee sought professional medical treatment . employee was released with no restrictions and returned to work on the next scheduled work day . on 02/17/2015 employee had prescription filled .
during his weekly examination a fireboss identified a roof fall in the left return of the 2nd right   section off of detour mains near spad # 1155. the fall was approximately   20' wide x 60' long x 5'-6' high and was supported by 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts the area was mined approximately   6/25/12 the fall will not be cleaned up and cribs have been built .
per notice received from mine safety and health administration , employee has been diagnosed with a sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis . therefore , this report is being submitted . we have not received any notifications of his fillings per workers compensation carriers ( s ) and neither have received notice either . this claim is not associated with an accident . date of accident is date of notification .
while splicing a cable , employee received 6 staples above the left knee by a utility knife .
injured was shoveling on belt line . he completed the shoveling and was going to go to track . injured went through a man door . he stepped on an old piece of belting causing his foot to slip . injured   did not request medical treatment until 8-20-01 and received treatment on same day .
employee was pulling on drag rope to line it up in the drum groove when he felt pain in his right front chest and right back shoulder area . employee was diagnosed with muscle strain and placed on restricted duty   - no lifting or pulling .
the service hoist number 4703 tripped out . electricians conducted an investigation and found four blown fuses which were replaced . the hoist did not come back on line . the equipment manufacturer was called to site . the technical representative identified faulty silicon controlled rectifier relays and replaced them .
employee was struck by a cable rope while pulling tension on the cable . they were pulling panline chain off the face onto a chain car . cause of this incident was not moving away from the cable prior to tensioning it up . compliance with rules was a factor , protective equip not a factor , miner attitude a factor , mining systems a factor .
employee was lifting a generator from the ground into the back of a truck causing a strain to his back
employee went out to the quarry to lay out a shot . he slipped on rocks and fell , hurting left knee . then , while walking into the office , employee walked into a well pipe that was sticking out of the ground and hurt left knee even more .
employee was loading bags of salt on pallets in the warehouse . the employee caught one of the bags off-balance and stepped backwards . when he tried to throw the bag of salt on the pallet he he ard a pop in his shoulder and started experiencing pain . the employee has inflammation in the muscles in the shoulder area and there may be some nerve damage .
the employee was operating number 62 a 295 be shovel when his left wrist started to hurt . he through he may have injured it at the start of the shift pulling on a manlift release pin . he saw a chiropractor   who took him off work . the illness was diagnosis tendonitis by both a certified nurse practitioner and a doctor .
employee was helping install a gear box on elevator shaft . box fell and caught employee's right ring finger between gear reducer and guard support and tore off fingernail .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by mine examiner in old works . fall measured 20 ' wide x 350'-400 ' long x 8-10 ' high . fall located northwest mains 1st left from spad number 4561 to spad number 4554 then to spad number 4557 .
employee was using left leg to free an electrical cable being pulled with a winch that was hung in a pulling shive . caused hernia .
while employee was getting off the lift , coworker pulled up next to him . the front right tire of the forklift ran over the outside of employee's left foot . employee was was wearing
the mine operator was notified by mine safety and health administration that the employee exercised his rights under 30 code of federal regulations part 90 .
during the pre-shift examination prior to 2nd shift at 2:30 pm a rock fall was discovered in the number 5 entry at spad 1040. the rock fall was approximately 20 ' x 19' x 5 ' high . this fall was reported immediately to mine safety and health administration supervisor and since the location was in the primary escapeway it was rerouted and all miners informed .
mine lost power due to electrical storm causing an outage . all power was lost underground and employees evacuated via the koepe on emergency generator power . all employees evacuated the mine with no injuries or other issues .
employee was repairing a piece of machinery and something hit his right thumb .
this is an amended copy this fall was cribbed and timbered off int he number 4 entry . also number 3 entry was stopped from advancing on 2-2-00 after they were bolted . the test holes showed cracks in the   roof there fore the roof was allowed to fall . this was not an unintentional roof fall . fall is approximately   140 ft outby working faces .
the intersection one bock inby spad number 1080 in number 8 entry fell 5 ' high x 18 ' long x 20 ' wide . the area was bolted with 5/8 x 60 '' full grouted rebar . no known remove for this fall . area dangered off , set breakers , and will not be cleaned up .
while dropping the head on the roof bolter , the head caught on the knee pad hyperextending the left knee . employee continued working until 10/8 at which time he started missing work making this a lost time accident .
employee was pulling a steel cable up to a platform when he suddenly strained his lower back .
employee states he stepped off pump sled and twisted knee . treated conservatively for 6 weeks . recently had to have fluid drained off knee and is now recordable .
employee was using a forklift to put tires on a loader . carbon monoxide from the forklift causing him to feel faint and made him suddenly .
2 employee's were removing bushings from boom arms of said loader with sledge hammer and bar . this employee was holding the bar when another employee accidentally struck his hand with hammer .
at the time of the incident , employee was installing a steering control valve on a 793 off-highway truck . while lifting the valve into place he strained the muscles in his lower back .
employee was installing steering cylinder on a komatsu wa-600 . employee had placed ram end in back half of machine and was in the process of pushing up on front end to align it in position . while pushing on cylinder employee felt sharp pain in left shoulder . original diagnosis on 12/5/05 was shoulder strain , then on 1/10/06 after mri diagnosed as rotator cuff tear .
employee was removing a 3 '' piston cylinder . pulling the cylinder off by hand , he was twisting and pulling on the cylinder . when the cylinder was at the end of the piston , the cylinder jumped free   and hit employee on the lip ; he had suture removal one week later .
employee was tramming the lube truck down the travelway . road conditions caused jarring as he traveled . he experience pain in his lower back and down his left leg .
delivery driver making a fly ash delivery to the cement plant , washing out the bed of the truck . the water hose hit employee in the leg , breaking the leg . degree 9 , not a titan employee . this was a delivery driver .
lab technician was taking kiln samples carrying sample buckets . proceeded to set buckets down , employee was in a twisted position causing strain lumbar region , placed on restricted duty .
while employee was exiting operations cab of number 34 dragline he slipped on the steps and hit his right elbow . no medical treatment required . we were informed on 6/19/03 that fluid started to accumulate   and on 6/24/03 employee went for medical treatment .
employee alleges he strained his left shoulder pulling cable .
employee was inspecting the belt skirting on the number 1 incline belt . as he bent over to look at the flashing he got his left hand caught in a troughing roller .
employee was helping move an electrical cable when the cable suddenly moved after being caught on something and pinned employee's hand between the cable and the end loader bucket . this caused a laceration which required stitches .
employee was walking in 2nd floor to check on refuse belt when he slipped on ice and fell on his left shoulder . pulled muscle in shoulder .
emerald mine has been notified that an employee has filed claim that he suffered a work related hearing loss from working at emerald mine . this incident is being filed as an occupational illness due to repeated trauma .
a roof fall was found in entry 6 cross-cut 70-71 west intakes . area was mined in august of 2009 and had been supported with 4-6 ' resin pins . no injury or property loss occurred . there are no plans to clean up fall . travelway is being rehabilitated in entry 5 and will serve as the new primary escapeway . fall was approximately 35 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8 ' high .
employee was climbing the ladder of a dm45 ir drill to prepare drill for start up . he was in a hurry and lost his footing , falling backwards to the ground lading on right arm. resulted in a knot swelling   up just below right elbow
report of incident on 4/18/2015 employee was crossing over stair case , the staircase rocked causing employee to be unbalanced , he smashed his right thumb and bruised inside of right arm when thumb and arm were contacted by the tools he was carrying
employee was assisting mine safety and health administration inspector measure opening of regulator . when she went to hand tape measure back to inspector she was sucked into opening resulting in abrasion and bruising of right knee . employee removed from work on 4/26 by doctor .
injured employee ( injured employee ) was assisting in the retraction of an inlet probe by means of a hand operated chain lever hoist . during the retraction process a  '' eye and eye wire rope sling being used failed/broke and the rope snapped back and struck the injured employee's right wrist and injured employee also lost balance and fell onto left buttocks resulting in wrist and coccygeal strain and contusion .
at approximately 8:00am employee was moving boxed explosives from the magizine to the powder truck when he felt a pop and pain in his lower back . he continued working until 10:00am when he was carrying a box of explosives . he stepped on a rock while wading through water and felt intense pain in his lower back . he the reported his condition to management . initial fax did not reach mine safety and health administration
at spad employee on 1st right panel off 2nd northwest main had roof fall 5' high , 18' wide , 30 ' long . fall did not interfere with air movement or anything else . on worked out section .
reportable hearing loss left ear . tested 7/1/04 confirmed by doctor documentation 2/7/05
employee works indoors at the chilton manufacturing building in the splitting department . the employee was splitting pieces and while pulling on a piece of stone , an edge cut the top of his left ring finger .
employee was using improper tools to straighten a crushed bobcat exhaust tail pipe . he was using a large adjustable wrench , and wrench slipped , causing him to cut his index finger on his right hand . he   was wearing leather gloves at time of accident . employee went to the doctor and received 7 sutures . he will return in 2 days to check for infection .
two employees were welding on a bent leg . one employee walked away leaving one . employee was trying to move welding leads when the lead caught on the bent leg . the welding lead caused the leg to fall across his foot .
the employee was using a pry bar to dislodge a rock from the breaker . when the rock moved the bar slipped causing him to fall approximately   one foot . employee landed awkwardly on his feet and experienced a sharp   pain in the middle of his back . the employee missed one shift because the doctor wasn't in and has been released for full duty .
the cage hoist went down due to an electrical issue on the 01/16/2018 . it was reported to mine management at 11:40 pm that it would not be back up within the 30 minute time frame and a call was made to the mine safety and health administration 1- 800 hotline at 11:50 pm to report it being down .
employee states that he was changing the batteries on the scoop and talking to someone at the same time . he stated the scoop operator had to get his battery cable unhung and was clear to move but injured wasn't paying attention because he was talking and when he told the scoop operator to wait a second he didn't hear him . the scoop shifted and his lower left leg got squashed .
employee was performing scheduled clean up under a conveyer . he was on his knees reaching material with a shovel when he experienced pain in his right shoulder and neck area . the pain persisted   and he was diagnosed with a right shoulder/ cervical sprain .
icy step on d8 dozer caused employee to slip off . his arm was stuck and caused him to hang by his arm only . serious shoulder injury was sustained . he was changing the oil at the time of the accident   .
employee was installing a window in shop building   when a piece of wood hit him in the left eye while putting the window in .
a roof fall was found in number 3 entry , number 9 cross-cut 2nd west 300 ' outby loading point fall 23' long x 18' wide x 0 to 4' high .
employee was helping remove drill steel from horizontal hole when his glove was caught and pulled off . his left ring finger had been injured on an off the job injury and when the protective glove was   pulled off , it pulled the bandage off his previously injured finger . it reinjured the same finger and required sutures in the same wound .
employee said he was bolting top and put too much pressure on drill steel . he stated that steel sprung out and hit his right arm and thumb .
while preparing to make crusher repair with rented crane and operator , employee on ground was struck by wood blocking being thrown from crane . employee was reaching for gloves left on ground when hit by blocking . employee has hematoma-contusion to left lower front of leg . employee on light duty work , no loss of time .
employee left a hand written note saying he hurt his knee climbing on stiffleg crane bucket to grease it . the employee stated the next day that it was an existing old injury and that he must of aggravated it . he was in the process of having the knee looked at with his doctors before the work incident .
employee was stepping through mandoor , slipped and fell , injuring lower back and hip . began missing work on 9/14/06 .
employee was using an air chisel to remove bolts and a piece of slag bounced back and hit him in the left cheek . employee was wearing proper eye protection .
bad brakes/bad steering , steep grade 15 % . employee was test driving the water wagon on the access road which is on the south side of homestead pit . employee must have lost his brakes , popped out of gear , lost steering and tried to jump . he was crushed by the tire .
employee was tightening a strap on a truck when the strap came loose and the hook on the end of the strap struck him on the chin , cutting his chin and requiring 6 stitches .
breaking down electric manlift at end of job . employee was moving the lift backwards and stated he had the pipe in view . he released the pedal and the lift drifted and wedged him between the pipe and control panel .
due to excessive rain fall in a short period of time , a mud slide occurred at no 1 portal , partially blocking left return .
employee was loading belt framing for a belt lay . he picked up a piece of framing and felt a pain in his back . he continued to work without restrictions . due to sporadic pain he was scheduled an mri . he was given restrictions on 06/16/2015 that due not allow him to fulfill all duties of his regular occupation .
kenworth tractor trailer truck was in the shop being repaired . the mechanic was letting the hood down , she did not know the driver was trying to get a shop light from the top of the front tire . the mechanic eased the hood over striking the driver causing bruising of the upper body area .
employee was torquing bolts using a torque wrench . he used his shoulder to push the wrench upward causing a compression injury to his shoulder . injury was not diagnosed as a tear to tendon initially and after months of continuing issue he has elected to have surgery to repair .
miner was climbing down from the longwall stage loader , turned ankle and hurt his right leg / ankle .
employee was assisting another employee remove a wooden track tie from under the track , felt pain in lower back . employee started missing scheduled work on july 15 , 2002 .
employee was using a knife to cut brattice cloth and cut his left hand which required stitches .
dismounting ladder from hoist pedestal , stepped into recessed area of deck , fell forward and fall was halted by a chain guard rail . this person works for arch coal inc technical services - he is not an employee of hobet mining , inc .
during rebuilding of mill number 2 , employee was inside the mill performing maintenance . he was tightening a bolt and using his right knee to brace his body to push the bar tightening the bolt . when he finished he said his knee felt like he had strained or pulled something in it . he continued working and had no loss time until his surgery on october 8 , 2012 .
employee was performing clean up work in clinker tunnel and some of the cement material got into her boot . after a period of time she experienced a chemical burn to the ankles .
employee was turning steering wheel when his left pinky caught window rail and popped .
employee stated that as he was exiting the truck his foot slipped off the step and he landed on the ground in an awkward manner . he later stated that his knee was sore . he was taken to the clinic as a pre caution where it was diagnosed as a minor strain . return to work regular job .
employee initially injured his lower back on 10/7/13 by placing a pallet on a scissor lift . the employee was taken to the emergency room and was released without restrictions . on 10/14/13 , employee was filling 50 lb paper bags when he felt the pain in his back again . the employee returned to the emergency room and was given a release with restrictions along with medication . workers compensation is questioning the validity of the employee claim .
employee injured his back while lifting a part to cat 5230 bucket .
roof fall break 41 , 1 break in by spad 296. fall is 20 ft by 20 ft by 4 ft thick . area bolted with 4 ' bolts ( resin full grout ) area developed 5-1-01 4,000 ft out by face area . breakered off fall . fall was found 11-9-01 on weekly examination .
the employee states that while changing a 16 '' tire the tire caught a rubber mallet that was on the machine . the contact caused the mallet to flip up and strike the employee in the upper lip . he was examined   and 3 sutures were used to repair the laceration . the employee was released to return to work full duty .
while climbing up the ladder on a cat 988b loader to start it up , employee felt a sharp pain in the lower left side of his back .
east 3 , 41 block , number 6 entry , mobile mining unit 008 , 4-way intersection . 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 7 ft wide . type of support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , cable bolts , roof mats , wire screen . heintzmann and bars . fall   dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall , clean up plan posted .
a roof fall occurred on number 5 unit number 1 entry of the 6th southwest sub panel approximately 15 ft inby the dumping point the fall was approximately 75' long , 20 ' wide and 5.5 ' thick ventilation was not affected
employee slammed finger in the truck cad door when exiting truck .
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers ' compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
victim climbed onto pipe to clear bacteria from the feed chute . victim slipped and fell approximately   9 1/2 ft to the floor , landing on this side . victim returned to work for his next shift , however on 9-12-01. he reported that he could not come to work and was instructed to see a day .
employee was operating roof bolting machine he was spinning a 12 ft cable bolt with boom rotation for installation . he had his hand on the bolt wrench while spinning the bolt . his glove became wrapped   around the bolt wrench. his left ring finger was torn off at the middle knuckle . his left small finger was fractured . he should not have had his hands on bolt wrench
employee did brake check on surface , stopped twice on ramp with no problems , when got to the 650 ramp brakes failed and miner hit rib to stop . miner was not wearing seat belt and was thrown around in cab .
employee was holding the trailer tongue on a portable used oil tank when a forklift contacted the wheel of the oil tank and caused the trailer tongue to strike the employee in the right side of the head above   the eyebrow . this caused a laceration requiring 4 sutures .
mechanical repairman was cutting up scrap metal when they attempted to squat and lift an 8 ' piece and felt a burning sensation in abdomen/groin area . employee ended up reaggravating a prior hernia injury from 2014 .
employee was working on a 6 '' water line . as he lifted a shut-off valve he strained his back .
employee was dragging rock dust hose along side of belt when he tripped over a roof bolt , causing him to fall and strike his left shoulder against a piece of water pipe . first lost workday occurred 4/13/05 .
7 mains 2 , 6 entry , 31 block , mobile mining unit 002 , spad number 16590 . 25 ft long x 18 ft wide x 7 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 '' resin bolts , pans . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
a roof fall approximately   30' x 19' x 6'8 '' was found on 5-19-2010 in the number 6 entry at spad number 810 approximately   2600 ' from the active face . the roof in this area is mixed and is supported by fully grouted resin bolts and 8 '' cable bolts . the fall did not affect ventilation nor was any equipment or miners affected by the fall .
the employee was putting miner cable down changing places with the miner standing on tip toes to let cable down and pain started in lower back all the way across back . injury was caused from lifting cable .
employee was stepping out of mantrip and strained his lower back .
employees were cleaning out tail pulley material ( conveyor locked out ) but material on belt caused belt to roll backwards and pinch employee's hand in pulley . his left hand has 2 broken bones in fingers   and bruised muscles .
employee was drilling drill bit caught a piece of rebar causing drill to jerk , spraining wrist
2/17/2015 employee was working with another miner carrying an auger up to the top of a product silo under maintenance/repair . employee completed his shift on 2/17/15 , but on 2/18/15 notified his supervisor of lower back pain . employee was seen by a phys . and was treated for a strained back ; placed on lifting/bending restrictions until cleared to return to full duty .
employee was carrying an idler bearing for a shuttlecar out to set it down on the mantrip . as he set it down , he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
rock fall occurred on 1 left panel off 002 sections 2 right submains at break 17 through 19 in number 5 entry . fall measured approx . 20 ' wide x 130 ' long x 6 ' thick .
employee was removing the lid from a 5-gallon oil can to use to mix b bond . he was pulling lid with a pair of channellocks . his grip slipped and employee cut his left hand on lid . employee received 6 stitches in left hand .
during kiln shutdown , employee was helping production helper lift a 5 gallon bucket of 4 '' by 7 '' steel shims onto back of tow motor , when he smashed his right middle finger between the bucket and   the tow motor . bucket weighed approximately 100-125 lbs . this caused a 90 % avulsion of the fingertip on his right middle finger . employee placed on light duty .
a roof fall occurred on headgate 17 in number 2 entry near spad 16805. the fall measured 4 ' by 20 ' by 30 ' . developed approximately 5/03/03 had been supported with 4 ' torque tension bolts .
a fall of roof occurred in the number 3 hoist track entry at number 1 break . fall is 16 ' long to 18 ' long and 7 ' to 8 ' high across the entry . no equipment involved and no injuries . area was supported with 6 ' resin bolts .
employee was climbing up the steps on the 966 cat end loader when he slipped and fell to the ground injuring his left ankle .
struck with drill steel in the right side of head and arm , trained on roof bolting , wearing proper personal protective equipment
employee was repairing a hose , when it slipped from his hand and a metal band around hose cut his thumb .
employee claimed he was picking up rocks to throw out of walkway and felt a pain in his left elbow . he worked until 12-5-02 when he was disabled . there were issues involving this case that needed further   investigation . on 12-23-2002 it was determined that this was work related .
while tramming the shuttle car he went over a roll in the bottom . he began having immediate back pain . he was taken from the mine , this report is late due to investigation concerning medical   condition
employee was hoisting a barrel of oil up to the plant . employee said that he thought he heard a pop and he either let go of the hoist handle or his hands slipped . the hoist handle hit him in the face .
employee stated he was walking down mine slop , slipped and fell , causing pain to right groin , possible strain .
come-along slipped , smashing finger against drill mast .
employee stated that he was carrying boom jack cylinder through a mandoor and he twisted his left ankle . he did not begin missing work until 6-1-05 .
employee stated was drilling hole in 4l cross-cut . while installing finishing steel in the hole , a piece of rock fell pinching right thumb between the rock and pusher steel causing a crushing injury . employee was transported to welch hospital . employee was transferred to rochester general hospital where employee was admitted overnight . employee underwent surgery and was released the next day . employee remains off work at this time .
employee was loading block onto shuttle car to be hauled to next entry . as employee was getting another block he slipped on a damp rock and fell . the battery for his light caused a bruise on is left lower back when he fell on it
employee felt a burning sensation in right eye after traveling under ore belt . two days later , on 7/5/07 , eye was sore and employee received medical attention . doctor determined eye infection was present and stated that it was unclear whether employee's incident was work related . employee was given prescription medication to treat eye .
roof fall is located in bleeder system 10 breaks in by mouth of panel . panel is 1st left off 1st mains . air flow not disrupted . fall in intersection 2500 ' from active working section.
employee lacerated her right hand between the thumb and index finger while banding cathodes . she was wearing neoprene gloves with kevlar inserts but when employee pulled on banding material it slipped and cut her . she was examined by the emergency room doctor , given 2 sutures and a tetanus shot and given a full release to return to work that day .
while bagging r-1 he felt pain in his left elbow. the doctor diagnosed it as an occupational illness . he was placed on light duty .
employee was working outside building a form . a dust devil occurred resulting in material entering the left eye .
employee was bolting in the number 2 entry in a94 when a piece of shale flaked off from roof and struck his right bicep .
employee had lime dust fall from surrounding area over him and into his eye , causing a lime burn . employee was prescribed an antibiotic ointment .
employee was removing stuck rock and debris from the cutter head on dixie dredge . in the process of kneeling down to dislodge a rock with a sledge hammer , he bumped his right knee on the angle iron that is used as a toe kick on the catwalk . on 3-5-04 he decided that he should be checked by a doctor .
replacing worn metal under crusher . other employee was swinging sledge hammer to get metal loose . employee reached in to get dirt away . other employee swung and hit employee on left hand little finger .
employee reports hoist drive problems to supervisor . he notifies mine safety and health administration @ 10:40pm of hoist problems and initiates evacuation . problem found ( blown fuses ) and repairs were made and completed at 6:30am 8/22/2008 . employees return to mine 6:40am .
employee was untightening nut of mantel , when it slipped down . employee had fingers in way and got sutures at end of two fingers .
the section foreman notified the belt man that the belts had stopped . the beltman traveled up number 4 belt to number 4 drive . he told section foreman the drive would not start , he traveled up number 4 belt and notified the foreman the belt looked like it was bound up . the section foreman traveled to number 4 belt and found the rock fall one break inby spad no . 1902. the rock was approximately   8' h x 12' w x 80' l
employee was taking rope bolts off of the bolting machine in the number   6 entry . one of the bolts butted against the rib and bent . it slipped from his hand and sprang back , striking his nose .
the employee stated he was riding in number   4 mantrip when a piece of rock fell from the mine roof and struck him on the top of the head and then glanced off and struck his left hand .
swinging sledge hammer and struck his hand on a piece of steel . his hand required sutures .
the contractor driver slipped when tarping the trailer . mine safety and health administration was notified at 2:47 pm .
bolting off miner in 2 east and right shoulder popped out of socket while holding bolt in the hole . multiple previous shoulder injuries . diagnosed with strain/sprain and possible chipped bone in shoulder , referred to specialist . no problems with mining machines , training , personal protective equipment , or compliance issues .
walking on catwalk , tripped on valve handle , falling and catching left forearm on top edge of screen that was leaning up against the handrail of the wet screen , laceration of left forearm .
slip and fall at the bottom of stair case . feculent was dripping in area .
employee was walking by rock duster and tripped and twisted knee when he fell .
employee was walking through the garage . he tripped over a jackhammer and fell . he landed in such a way as to fracture his finger and split the skin requiring stitches .
employee was working on number 5 belt scraper . he was pulling out a belt pin , when he slipped and fell across the belt . he scraped and bruised his right rib and his right leg .
injured was struck in the mouth with a ratchet when the head slipped off of bolt .
a rock ( football size ) rolled down and off a catwalk , striking the ground person in the back as employee was bending over shoveling . employee went to the clinic and was put on restricted duty with a bruise to the lower left side of employee's back .
employee was trying to dislodge some sand that built up along the inside of sand hopper - he slipped and hit cross bar - injuring his shoulder .
employee was working on d10r in the radiator compartment and changing around two small pilot lines . the wind blew the radiator guard door closed and the door struck employee on the side of his right hand and pinched his hand . the fleshy side of the hand below the small finger on the side of the hand . ernie stitched up .
pulling rockdust hose and felt pain in groin area was diagnosed with a hernia and his first day of lost work is 5/29/08 .
while stripping wire , utility knife slipped lacerating left hand .
an employee was rock dusting on the west mains belt when he slipped on a wet rock dust covered rock. employee did not start missing work until 8-25-03
employee stated employee was operating the shuttle car when a metal strap was loaded into the shuttle car and fell into the deck of the car resulting in a laceration to right hand , middle 3 fingers . employee was treated at the harlan hospital and received 12 stitches to the 3 fingers
the employee was working in the bagging area . he was at the pallet conveyor and went to bend over and grab the hand crank to move the pallet and felt something pop in his back when he bent over .
making airway , found fall in number 4 entry at spad no . 772. this is area in gob area . 50 ' length , 20 ' width , 6 ' thick . area is being timbered off .
employee crossed several large stones , approximately   2' x 2 ' to be in a position to pull the pump foot valve out of the mud using a rope . when crossing back , he put the rope onto the bank and slipped on an adjacent   stone , lacerating his mid right forearm .
filing only to comply with mine safety and health administration regulations ; however , company's investigation doesn't support employee's report that his shoulder tears occurred at work . company was officially notified 2/22/12 that workers compensation agreed to pay claim under a disputed liability . employee notified company on 1/13/12 that approximately 5 weeks earlier he was injured and had been doctoring . we are contesting this filing .
banita clip came off a power cable and was caught inside employees mouth resulting in laceration to the inside of his mouth requiring stitches .
employee was lifting an angle iron and felt a pain in his groin area . per call to robert biggans 2-2-05 , hernia was repaired . coder 12 .
unintentional roof fall 6th north panel entries , entry number 4 cross-cut number 24 retreat down entries driving rooms to left . 18 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high. bolted with 6 ' - 8 ' tension rebar bolts . 4 way intersection prepped around fall .
employee was moving a chute on a dolly . they had to take the chute off the dolly to maneuver it in a tight spot . while moving the chute it fell over and caught his hand between the chute and a handrail . restrictions were given .
roof fall above roof bolt anchorage , intersection of cross-cut 49 , number 4 entry , north submain . fall dimensions 20' long x 25' wide x 5 ' high. no one injured , no equipment involved
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 1 intake at 32 break . ( 1 break inby spad number   289 ) fall was approximately 18 ' x 20 ' .
the foreman : employee were carrying pipe from the return to number 1 belt . he slipped on the ice and fell .
employee was putting starter on lo-trac , as he was trying to secure the hood , it fell and struck him on the head/face . injury required stitches .
mine lost power 8/23-9:35 am . compromises two ways out . employees stopped work , assembled in lunch room . problem with kcpl. no info on duration of outage . evacuation ordered 9:40 using backup power supply , called mine safety and health administration . evacuation recorded 9:40 . 9:47 - employees out of mine and accounted for . phoned mine safety and health administration later in day - employees sent home , will be back 8/24-6:00 am shift .
while conducting the biweekly inspection and operation the hose. it was unable to descend down the shaft due to a build up of ice in the shaft . the build up of ice covered approximately   two-thirds the diameter of the shaft . the mine was immediately evacuated and recovery plans made to return the mine to normal operation .
employee was walking under plant , lost footing causing him to twist right knee and fell on left back side .
employee was walking down the exterior metal steps of pre plant . he slipped on the wet/icy steps and was not holding to the hand rails . he fell and injured his back .
employee was following a coal truck in on the haul road and another worker was coming out ( from job ) . employee said he heard nothing on the citizens band so he thought no one was coming . the 2 personal trucks hit head on , driver's side .
based on the information received from those present it appears that the ignition was caused when the continuous mining machine was trimming footwall ( mine floor ) when a spark ignited an unknown methane bleeder near the footwall . mine safety and health administration notified timely .
the employee was allegedly bending over to pick up a cement sample bucket , when he allegedly felt pain in right side of lower back
a dump valve he was replacing fell over and mashed the employee's right finger while he was reaching for tools .
employee was operating a continuous miner . he was clearing loose roof off the top of the continuous miner . a piece of roof rock fell from between the roof bolts , striking his right forearm . the employee did   not miss any work days and he is working with sutures .
employee was bent down add oil to a hitachi ex1000 . he had been bent down for several minutes on the catwalk running alongside the motor compartment . when he stood up , he stated that he felt a tearing   sensation below his navel . doctor's statement confirmed that he strained an abdominal muscle .
the contrary portal service cage was down for approximately two hours and 45 minutes due to a rope coming off of a counterweight sheave wheel . this occurred during testing of the emergency stop system . there were no persons on the service cage and no injuries due to this incident .
employee states he was riding west mantrip to section when mantrip went through deep and between out causing pain in lower back alleged accident on 10-10-00 was treated as first aid . employee has had back surgery   for previous accident on january 1995. incident was treated as reoccurrence by medical personal of old injury on 11-14-00. medical specialist made assessment that there was a new injury at which
while descending the steps from the control panel to the copper conveyor , the fiberglass step gave away causing employee to fall through the opening up to his waist . the fall resulted in a scraped left shin , a sore right knee and a small cut to the left index finger .
an unintentional detonation of an undetected charge of explosive material occurred while the gradall scaler was removing loose rock from the back and ribs of the southwest-2 face heading .
employee was attempting to move a tail pulley with a 6 ft bar and felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee was assisting another employee hauling lumber when he struck his head on an overhanging pipe .
employee received a puncture wound to the right cheek as he was attempting to remove a bit insert with a ball pin hammer . a small sliver of the hammer chipped off as he was beating on the insert .
employee was pulling/hanging miner cable in low coal conditions on-section . employee strained back , employee received medical attention at local emergency room . employee was released and told to follow up with primary care physician .
employee stated that he was riding 3-wheeler mantrip to number 6 head when he decided to cross the track in a place he says he probably wasn't supposed to cross . he stated that he had to go really fast to cross there and when he hit the track it caused his head to bump top .
the employee was stepping from the walkway of the komatsu wa800 wheel loader , onto a step to gain access in order to change the right tilt cylinder hose . he lost his balance when taking the step and fell 11 ' to the ground . he suffered a laceration above his right eye , a broken elbow and facial fractures .
after operating a caterpillar articulating haul truck , employee began to complain of knee pain . employee has been diagnosed with a torn meniscus and will undergo surgery to repair the injury .
lifting shaker screen that sits on 4 coil springs - as screen lifted only 3 coil springs released but not the 4th . when lifting for 2nd time screen released from 4th coil and slowly swing away from plant and then came back . employee put foot out to stop shaker screen and leg got pinched . employee has denied all drug testing demands/request .
tightening head on kelly bar on drill with wrench , wrench slipped and employee moved awkwardly and felt pain in lower back .
employee's were removing cribbing under jaw crusher . cribbing in 4 '' x 4 '' x 8 ' . the crib hung up on employee , he put his hand on top of crib to push when the opposite end dropped , pinching his left hand between   the crib and the crusher frame , breaking two metacarpal bones .
working to connect piping in mine , employee used employee's shoulder to support the pipe while lowering the pipe hanger . felt a pop in employee's right shoulder . reported on 9/11/16 , taken to be evaluated and given a full release on 9/13/16 . 9/15/16 , the employee requested an mri and was given a second full release . 10/6/16 the employee was seen by the company doctor and placed on restricted duty .
employee was hosing pellets and was standing on a pile of pellets and lost his footing and fell on his right knee . under further review from the safety committee and further investigations and uncovered further details we found he had previous knee injury .
an unintentional roof fall occurred approximately 2 breaks inby spad 16356 on the low gap mains at 15 break along the old 8a belt conveyor in an adjacent entry . the area was supported with 48 inch fully grouted roof bolts . the fall measured 40 ft long x 20 ft wide x 4 ft high . all approaches to the fall have been supported . the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was attempting to get a crib block out from under a piece of metal plate measuring 1/2 '' x 4 ' x 5 ' . it had a sharp edge on it lacerating his left index finger requiring 17 stitches . employee was not   scheduled for work until 11-3-03 .
employee was tramming a genie manlift when he drove into a small ditch . this caused a jarring motion , up and down , to his back . employee felt pain and was determined he strained his lower back .
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers compensation division for occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee alleges that he hit a pothole on the road and suffered a back injury .
employee was helping a build a brattice while reaching a coworker a brattice block his right foot got stuck in the mud causing right knee to twist tearing anterior cruciate ligament ligament , employee became a lost time on 08/06/12 due to this injury .
while moving a rotor screen the employee's foot was caught under the edge of the screen when it was placed on the floor . it pinched the employee's foot on the left side behind his protective toe cap
employee was operating loader on haulroad to spread gravel when he drove over a rough patch in the road making the loader bounce . when this happened , the employee felt a sharp pain in his upper back area .
was getting out of haulage jeep and tripped and fell to the bottom straining his right knee .
while adjusting a rotation switch sensor , the employee dropped the screwdriver . when employee reached to grab it , employee's finger was caught by the rotating target .
employee was driving a 465 haul truck and being loaded when a buck was dumped and rocked the haul truck . this caused a pain in employee's neck .
employee was fueling portable compressor diesel tank while equipment was operating . he reached to grab the fuel cap when his right hand ring finger got caught in the fan blades of the alternator   . he was taken for medical treatment where amputation of the right ring finger to distal interphalangeal joint was required .
while moving a cart in reverse the operator turned around to see and was steering with left hand . employee got too close to the rib and the front tire caught , spinning the steering wheel out of hand . this caused the ball on the steering wheel to strike employee in the back of hand .
while exchanging gas cylinder , employee slipped and fell , allowing cylinder to fall on his right hand causing a laceration .
employee fell on dredge and hit his knee .
while walking from the thickner , employee slipped on some mud , stumbled but did not fall to the ground and strained his back . he was taken to the emergency room and taken off and released to his next regular shift , 8/13/07 . he reported to work , but complained of pain , was told to see his personal physician , and taken off work until 8/21/07 . ongoing .
employee was in the process of taking a cat pad out of a continuous miner when the wedge blocking material came out and his hand was smashed between the cat pad and the pan of the miner . which resulted   in a hairline fracture to his finger .
employee was helping in the process of welding cutter edges on barge . employee was walking along barge talking to someone and he suddenly turned around to where welder was welding cutter edges , he stepped into a hole that had been opened when lid was remove to check water content in barge . employee fell into hole and bruised himself but at this time he did not seek medical help nor information employee
employee completed pre-operation inspection on loader . our investigation indicates employee fell from standing position on ground prior to ascending the loader ladder suffering injury to right hand , forearm and forehead . environmental factors ( weather , ground ) and loader conditions good and non-contributory to this incident . a pre-existing medical condition likely contributed to the fall .
the barge loadout house that houses the barge moving controls and other electrical transformers and breaker boxes caught on fire on an idle shift   a truck driver turned it in and a local fire dept extinguished it . the inside of the building was destroyed . the fire lasted for about an hour . it may have been started by an overheated transformer . no injuries .
unintentional roof fall on the 8q longwall from the face to the tailpiece . the fall measured approximately 85 ' long by 18 ' wide by 12 ' high .
oakdale portal elevator was inoperative from 8:02 am to 8:50 am . no injuries , no entrapment . the door latch was stuck and corrected .
employee attempted to raise open raymond mill lid without assistance resulting in lid falling onto right hand , cutting/ crushing 3rd and 4th fingers , fractured end of 4th finger .
deceased truck driver ( customer ) found dead in cab of tractor ( freightliner ) by another truck driver at our truck wash location . death is believed to be from natural causes to be determined by arkansas state crime lab .
after using a gas powered chop saw to cut cement , employee stated was not feeling well and wanted to go home . once home , employee felt the dizziness , headache and nausea could have been caused by inhaling exhaust from the chop saw and sought medical treatment .
was filling water truck and slipped falling to ground landing on his back . says it began to spasm. says this is common when he stresses his back due to on old high school football injury and then from   an automobile accident from the past .
while riding on a diesel powered man trip enroute to the active mining section the conveyance ran over a ledge in the roadway thus causing the employee hand which his face was resting on to strike his jaw . the impact of which fractured his tooth .
employee was climbing into loader and felt pain in lower back .
helping a coworker load an i beam into a ram car , had pain in his low back region . within a few days experienced pain and discomfort to both his low back , hip and leg . he continued to work for the next 7 months . the pain continued ; an mri was taken in june . the results indicated degenerative disc disease in the low back . he started missing scheduled work days on 7-28-06 .
employee was removing a long bolt from a propel cam on the dragline . the bolt came out and the employee caught it with his left hand , pulling his shoulder . as he started down the stairs , he fell and ended up on the dragline shoe . he received a broken humerus , dislocated shoulder and a laceration to his right leg requiring sutures .
employee reached to stop a rock from rolling and his finger ( ring finger on right hand ) was smashed between two rocks .
employee struck his hand ( left ) with a hammer while working on a continuous miner . he did not start missing work until 7/23/2005 .
employee was using torch to cut link out of conveyor on feeder where the hose connects to the handle . the hose ruptured and burnt his left arm . employee went to the hospital and was treated and released . employee worked his next shifts on friday and sunday and then was off due to the injury , he plans to return to work on 4/3/06 .
employee was tightening down his load using a cheater bar on the come-along handle when the bar slipped off the handle and struck employee on the chin .
mechanical work resulting in chronic bilateral median mononeuropathies at the wrist . first saw doctor on 12/14/2012 . did not miss work till 3/14/13 when he had surgery on wrist .
employee was driving a mule and felt material get in their left eye . employee flushed out eye and requested a medical evaluation . employee was given a prescription .
employee was loading steel grading and pinched his right hand between pieces . laceration to his middle finger , right hand - required sutures .
employee dismounted a d-11 dozer incorrectly , resulting in his left foot slipping and his body falling forward . he was able to hang on to the grab rail by the engine compartment , but his left foot became   caught near the step , resulting in a fracture of the tibia and fibula above the left ankle .
roof fall at no 5 entry between 15 and 16 cross-cut on 2 south mains . fall was 20 ' wide x 50 ' long x 5'-9 ' thick . cleaned up fall and rebolted area . 10 day reporting window extended due to mine holiday and vacation .
employee reported : helping coworkers place explosives on large rocks in front of shields at tailgate area of longwall face line . he was standing under shields number   136 and 137 when a small piece of rock   fell from between the two shields . the rock struck the back of his head just under his protective mine cap resulting in a small laceration and a mild concussion .
employee was helping to move the roof bolter machine out of number 4 entry. the roof bolter operator backed machine upon a rock bolter slid off rock causing it to move forward and toward rib bolter t bar   striking him and pinching him against t bar   and rib starting losing time on 1-23-06 .
employee was in the process of making a batch of slurry . she cut a bag of caustic soda open to add to the batch and some of the granules got into her left eye . she immediately began flushing the eye with water and was taken for further medical attention .
employee was moving a rubber mat in the mine area . employee tripped over the mat its self or the uneven terrain and fell awkwardly on to right leg . employee had pain in right knee and slight pain in right ankle .
working with 2 fellow employees on the west side of the wet screen using a hydraulic torque wrench , one employee positioned the torque wrench over the nut , the second held the bolt in with a hammer wrench braced against the structure and a third activated the hydraulics . employee pinched his finger between the structure and the hammer wrench
employee was sandblasting on elevated platform wearing personal fall arrest gear and personal protective equipment . employee sandblasted one of the nylon straps causing the platform to tilt . employee slid down platform , but fall gear stopped fall . employee lost control of the blast hose , and it remained operational . the freefloating hose then turned toward employee . employee sustained sandblast injuries to face , hand and leg .
a screen panel was being replaced in a triple-deck screen by two mechanics . one mechanic was working inside the screen loosening the fasteners with a battery impact and ratchet wrench . while ratcheting , the mechanic felt and heard a pop in his right shoulder . a medical evaluation revealed a strained/sprained tendon , and the mechanic was placed on restricted duty for healing .
miner was shoveling tabular balls into a chute . when the miner finished , he turned and hit his head on a support rail . miner was wearing a hardhat at the time of the incident .
employee handling piece of steel wear plate in a conveyor feed chute when the plate dropped from its position and cut employee's finger . cut required 5 sutures .
employee slipped when entering mantrip and felt knee pop . he began missing work 11/27/06 .
roof fall was discovered on e-mains number 6 entry @ number 9 cross-cut spad # 80. outby section and loading points . developed september 2005 . 190 ' coverage . area bolted with 6 ' double lock bolts , 7/8 '' diameter . grade 75 , 8 x 8 inch roof plates with roof screen installed . fall measured 25 ' long , 20 ' wide x 9 ' high . no injuries or equipment involved . no ventilation or escapeway blockage .
employee was working on an automated loading machine that picks up marble slabs by suctioning the slabs stuck together . employee tried prying them apart by hand causing strain .
man was working on the 4th floor of a surface mill when he was asked to go to the bottom level and act as a hole watch . although the stairs were right next to the work area , he went approximately   60 ' to a manlift belt . he caught his right heel on the upper floor grating as the platform went down , tripping him back and causing him to fall off the platform about 7 ' to the deck below .
employee was raising gate on silo number 14 with pry bar . bar slipped , hitting right   index finger . employee lost nail and had laceration that required 2 stitches .
employee was swinging sledge hammer and hit his left foot .
employee was walking towards face from power center , when a piece of rock 1/2 inch thick , 7 inch x 8 inch fell from the roof , striking him in the left side of his head . 90 ' inby spad number 1691 ( area of accident is 10' high )
employee was using a six foot cheater bar and wrench to change a tire , they were pulling on bar and wrench when it slipped and employee fell back and hit the truck cutting his right eye .
some rock had fell onto the longwall panline . the employee was breaking the rock with a sledge hammer . he complained of pain in his lower right side of his chest .
employee was standing in front of 2 ft high concrete blocks . when he turned to walk away from job , he tripped over the concrete block , falling on his right arm . he broke his arm above the elbow   , but returned to work with restricted duty .
while advancing bolter into a cert a piece of roof rock fell from between bolts and struck employee on back of neck . compliance not a factor , rules and regulations not a factor . failure to observe roof condition
employee was installing return roller on belt , pushing upward with left shoulder and felt a pop in shoulder . went to doctor and given something for pain. employee returned   to doctor 12/27 when pain returned . the accident became reportable at that time .
employee was working around the product bagging area when he felt like he had gotten something in his eye . he finished his shift , but his eye was still irritating him on monday august 2 so he sought doctor's treatment . no foreign object was found by the doctor . employee was given an ophthamalic prescription and released back to full duty .
a frictional methane ignition occurred on the longwall face , shield no . 130. the flame was extinguished in 3-5 seconds .
worker exiting back of service truck stepped on tailgate which employee did not realize was unlatched , causing worker to fall backwards , landing on right hand/wrist .
a roof fall was discovered on a-mains , number   8 entry and intersection at survey station no . 800. the fall was approximately   60 ' long x 30 ' wide x 8-10 ' high . the fall contained 6 ' resin bolts and was developed   january 1998. the fall was dangered off and timbers set at approaches . it will not be cleaned up at this time .
miner was skipping a stoper drill from the 3rd level to the stope level above . a rock was dislodged from the stope floor and fell down the raise , striking the miner in the face , breaking his safety glasses and injuring his right eye .
employee jumped off equipment . employee jacket got caught and employee fell . employer did not learn of injury until after employee quit job on 6/1/18 and started a workman's compensation claim
beltrami was tightening a spring break on number 85 tractor with a wrench and pulled his right shoulder .
employee was roof bolting - while doing so he scraped his back across a bearing plate causing a laceration that required sutures .
employee was fueling a rock truck when the fuel hose came out of the fuel tank neck . in doing so he attempted to jump out of the way and stumbled . he fell on his wrist causing a stress fracture   and is wearing a soft cast .
walking beside roof bolter when a piece of draw rock about 12 '' wide x 12 '' long x 2 '' thick fell from mine roof hitting employee right foot fracture to right foot .
employee was loosening a take up bearing adjuster when the wrench that he was using slipped off and hit him in the mouth .
excavator disturbed a bee hive and employee was near it . employee received 5 stings
a roof fall occurred measuring 70' long x 18' wide x 08-10' high outby spad 2587. no equipment was involved , no ventilation was disturbed , no injury occurred and the fall will not be cleaned up .
operator was loading material in the crusher . a large rock became stuck , when employee climbed the stairs to inspect the problem employee's foot slipped and employee fell . employee hit employee's side on the rail and fell to the ground .
a roof fall occurred in the east parallels at cross-cut number 11 in the intersection of number 6 entry and extending 1/2 the pillarline towards number 5 entry and 1/2 the pillarline towards number 7 entry measuring 50 ft . x 19 ft . x 6 ft . this area was mined in may 2000 and supported with 6 ft . tension rebar bolts . this fall was caused by an undetected slip .
employee was walking through some mud and water that was deeper than employee realized . employee was carrying miner bits in one hand and lunch box in the other . employee foot slipped and ended up twisting knee .
two employees were carrying a rack wheel onto the face of the e-29 longwall section when the rack wheel moved causing the weight of the wheel to shift towards the injured employee which in turn caused the injured employee to strain lower back .
while installing supplemental bolts on the 2b longwall face , the employee was struck on the left foot by a piece of material , which fell from the top . the impact caused him to fall , striking his left shoulder .
employee was standing on the ladder of the maintainer when his knee popped and began to hurt .
debris fell from above while scaffolding boards were being removed causing to fall onto employee and get in his eye .
employee . was driving cu106 boom rig around a rib at main shop . he hit a pothole which caused the air ride seat to hit bottom and jar his lower back . he said he felt no immediate pain . later in the day the pain increased . when he went home for the weekend he started taking oxycontin . injury reported on 1/10/11 .
employee bruised his right knee while crawling in mine .
employee tried to catch a 12 ' ladder that was falling . this caused him to feel pain in his right shoulder and arm .
employee lifted box of dynamite , twisted or strained lower back .
employee was pulling belt when his vicegrip slipped and he fell to the ground injuring lower back .
the employee climbed up on a rubber tire dozer ( rubber tire dozer ) to get a serial number off the torque converter . he bent over and twisted and his lower back popped . he reported it to his supervisor . he was transported   to the emergency room by ambulance .
a pillar fall occurred entrapping 4 mobile post supports between number 24 and number 25 coal blocks . the mine roof started working due to excessive roof weight all men were brought to the surface and mine safety and health administration notified . note : all falls will be plotted on mine map once area is safe to re-enter
outby roof fall cross-cut 11 of number 4 entry , 1-rt submain approximately   15 ' x 20 ' x 10 ' in height , no one injured , no equipment involved fall partially blocked primary escapeway and ventilation was not significantly affected .
at about 4:40am employee said he was preparing to fuel an end loader in the parking area . he was pulling out the hose on the fuel truck and stumbled across a pallet lying next to the loader , causing him to fall and fracture his right leg below the knee .
employee was closing the door on a stedman crusher when he lost his balance and fell .
employee was using the hose on the water truck and when he pulled on the hose the reel stuck and the hose didn't come out . this resulted in low back pain with restrictions .
employee was working on a loader that had its cab and transmission removed . he was where the transmission had been , cleaning the area . he raised an access panel on the hood to give himself more room . his hard hat fell off . he stood to replace it , the wind blew the access panel shut striking him in the head before he could replace his hard hat . he required 4 stitches , 1 day off work .
employee was walking down stairs , misjudged step distance due to looking through the bifocal part of his glasses and fell down several steps . as a result of the fall , his arm was cut and required   surgery to repair .
roof fall 20 ' wide , 60 ' long 6'- 8 ' thick . location number 5 entry , spad 21 + 04 in the 7th subpanel north . ( abandoned panel )
roof fall ( 7000-1-001-06 ) : location : outby 1 north 3 west seals - number 4 seal . dimensions : height: 6-10 ' , width: 19 ' , length: 280 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in roof . roof support : 6 ' hightech point anchor bolts . the area was mined in june 1993. prominent roof jointing or slips in the roof were the apparent cause for the fall .
allegedly , employee was descending a 10 ' steel ladder and missed bottom rung . he caught himself , but twisted the middle of his back . employee didn't lose any time until 11-17-01 .
employee was leaving from work when she slipped on ice and broke her ankle . it was a very hot day the day before but then snowed as the sun went down , re-freezing everything that had been melting . heidi lost her balance and fell straight down to the parking lot .
an employee backed over another employee's foot with a forktruck . the cause was due to the inattention of both employees .
injured employee was removing his outer shirt when he struck his head against a roofbolt plate .
employee was operating a motor and while dismounting vehicle . she placed her foot on motor step and twisted around to step down . when she did she twisted and felt pain in her right ankle . she could not get in to see an orthopedist until 7/20/07 and was doctor with a fracture of the fibula .
employee was prying with a slate bar on a piece of metal . the metal slid off the 4 x 4 blocking and shifted all the weight on to the slate bar . the slate bar struck his ( right ) foot .
driving fork lift under conveyor and clump of dirt fell on forks . dirt particles entered right eye . did have prescription medication .
ie was attempting to remove mud from the transmission housing of a pickup truck . ie violated co policy by not chocking the wheels , not locking/tagging , and not de-energizing the truck prior to maintenance . resulted in truck moving while ie was still on ground with the tire of the truck contacting employee resulting in a broken clavicle and a laceration to ear
while mining in number 7 entry the miner operator heard the roof cracking a few times . the foreman then checked the area and found the roof to be solid-test taken : while the foreman was present the roof   started cracking again . the miner was moved to number 5 entry , this is when the cross-cut from number 5 to number 7 started working and caved .
employee was fueling his dozer at the end of his shift , when he slipped and fell from the dozer , to the ground .
while installing the drive belt on a screen an employee got his finger caught between the belt and the screen sheave and cut the end of his finger . due to a broken motor mount the employee was not able to fully adjust the mount properly and was rolling the belts on when the accident occurred .
injured worker strained lower left back while shoveling raw materials .
roof fall at number 8 entry across from spad # 1674. fall is approximately   120 ' long and 20 ' wide and knocked at part of stopping . mine safety and health administration inspector was on job site and we checked it out . fall was above anchorage - looked to be at least 10 ' high . 5 ' and 6 ' double lock bolts appeared to be adjacent to fall area . area was developed approximately   june of 2002 .
injured employee was mounting wirtgen continuous miner and struck head on air conditioner . employee jammed their neck .
injured party was loading 5 gal oil cans off a wooden pallet onto an oil trailer when the 5 gal can of oil fell off the pallet suddenly causing him to pull a muscle in his right shoulder trying   to hold the can .
welders were adding an extension onto a hopper that takes the rock to the mill . they were moving a beam in place and had very little body positioning space , so he used his back to lift instead of knees . pulling lower abdomen muscles , resulting in a hernia .
employee states he was using pry bar to free pipe stand from mud . bar slipped and he struck tooth causing part of tooth to break off .
picking up a hopper with the forklift loose proppant fell down into his left eye
the number 4 winze cage hoist was disabled due to electrical problems . three problems were identified , defective circuit board in silt room control , a defective relay switch and also replaced a reference   potentiometer . the cage hoist was fully operational at 5:30 pm june 16 , 2000. the skip hoist was available to hoist personnel during any emergency while repairs were being made .
employee was backing a dozer from shot to unshot material . the dozer raised up and abruptly came down causing the employee to experience pain in his neck between his shoulderblades and left arm . he was medically evaluated and referred to physical therapy .
employee was helping 2 other men remove a tail pulley . the two men lifted their end of the pulley causing the weight to shift , hurting the other employee's back . back injury was listed as a lumbar   strain .
while searching through boxes in connex trying to locate bolts in order to complete daily task , employee states that his footing slipped on a rope in floor . as he caught his balance he reached out and placed his hand through a pane of glass in connex window .
as mix operator , employee lifts 50 lb bags off pallets , and empties content into mix pot . incipient date unclear , although he states that he was aware of low back discomfort starting near the end of his shift for some time . on 8-8 states that although it was no more than usual it did not go away during the night , sent to clinic where objective findings for repetitive injury .
employee worked on number 2 merrick belt shoveling and operated a 30 '' steam valve in gr3 . on the ride home from work the employee's back became sore and locked up . restricted to no overtime for two weeks on 6/26/08 .
employee lifting rock out of crusher , strained and tore muscles causing hernia .
pulling mine cable with mac-8 , a piece of rock fell between roof bolts hitting employee on left foot .
employee was getting off big bagging machine and twisted his left ankle - spraining it .
this occupational illness claim became mine safety and health administration reportable upon notification of claim being accepted by labor and industries . occupational illness - mine safety and health administration report - lost time as of 1-15-01 .
while loading a structure trailer into the beltline , a crew member grabbed a rail and started to load , as he jerked the rail out he struck employee in the nose .
employee is unsure about how or when a foreign body entered his eye while on duty . medical treatment was received .
tireman developed weakness and numbness in his right hand over a period of 25+ years of working . after evaluation by a physician it was determined that he had cts and that surgery was necessary to correct this condition . on 7/21 it was the physician decided that surgery would be preformed on 7/26 , so that is the day that is being used to report as day of accident ( illness ) .
employee was performing routine housekeeping ; was removing dirt and rock from underneath the under-screen conveyor of the jaw . employee's shovel got caught in a return roller , which pulled employee's arm into the roller . employee freed self , but suffered major burns on right shoulder and arm .
repairing hydraulic pump on 980 cat loader . foot slipped , lower left leg sustained contusion . diagnostic x-ray , celebrex for pain .
employee was splicing a cable when the knife slipped and cut his right leg . he received   5 stitches .
employee was shoveling to clean up area . he pulled something in his back but is unsure of exactly when it happened .
the employee was working on the maintenance of a conveyor belt , he didn't stop the machine to clean it , then the machine hurt a finger of this employee .
while taking down roof bolter cable , the operator of the bolter turned on the reel . the cable suddenly struck his lower legs causing him to fall . on 3/10/03 he was diagnosed for crack in humerus   and began missing time .
a fall of the roof occurred on number 4 unit , number 6 entry across from the feeder 40 ' outby spad number 30565 in the 4th northeast panel . the fall was 130' long , 20' wide , and 5' thick . no ventilation or personnel were affected . the fall landed on the back of a three-wheeler .
a roof fall occurred in entry 2 - 3 of the main southwest @ survey station 0+70 measuring 40' long x 19' wide x 6' high . all approaches to this area have been timbered off .
a custom made guard was made for a pit . the employee   kicked the 15 lb guard to knock in place . the heal of his boot caught the guard . the employee   felt some pain to his right knee . employee   continued working however later in the day his right knee swelled with increased pain and he was unable to get out the man trip . employee   taken to doctor and placed on restrictions .
a roof fall occurred at 28 wall on 1-north belt. the fall was above the anchorage . it entrapped noone or any equipment . it affected ventilation . the fall was 30' x 20' x 14 ' high .
employee was on top of open top rail car observing a maintenance task , when employee lost balance and fell over the edge of the rail car . employee fell to the ground and sustained significant injuries .
notification by mine safety and health administration of possibility of pneumoconiosis .
the employee alleges he hurt his back on 10/2 but did not report any injury . i spoke to the employee on 10/28 via telephone after trying several times to contact him . he states he was putting on a repaired hydraulic hose on his haul truck and hurt his back . he left work on 10/8 when he was told to find a water leak in his truck . the employee also filed for unemployment .
picking metal out of section feeder , a rock fell down striking left small finger cutting the finger through the glove . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance of rules/regulations not a factor , mining equipment/system not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
employee was cutting a metal band off of a bundle of roof bolts and the band flipped back and his his left eye . he had to have surgery to remove a piece of metal from his eye . started missing work 3/5/09 .
employee was changing a bit on a continuous miner when he was struck by a piece of mine roof . he was knocked into a bit lug and chipped his tooth . the remaining portion of that tooth was removed a couple of days later .
on april 10 , 2000. employee reported that his right arm and elbow were sore . the employee visited a doctor on 4-14-2000 and was diagnosed with tennis elbow . he has been given anti-inflammatory medication , exercises , and an elbow brace . there are no restrictions on work duties . the likely cause is from repetitive lifting and placing of cement sacks onto wood pallets .
a temporary staffing service employee was washing a 250 ml erlenmeyer flask with a bottle brush . during this process the flask broke and a piece of glass penetrated a nitrile glove and cut the palm of the injured employee's right hand . the injury resulted in the employee receiving 6 ea   stitches and a return to work release with no work restrictions .
employee was using a sledgehammer to clear a pluggage on a process line . his right index finger got caught between the hammer handle and a process pipe . x-ray of the finger revealed a fracture . employee place on restricted duty .
employee was attempting to attach a chain around a refuge chamber door to a forklift fork . as the fork was being boomed out his right arm was inadvertently pinched between the fork and the door .
employee was lifting re-railer under railroad car and sprained back .
injured was pulling a beam in from the b hoist well and felt a burn in his back and numbness in his right leg . he continued to work and started missing on 7/16/11 .
employee had placed 2 catheads on desk during unloading supplies . while cleaning the office floor he bumped a chair which caused one of the catheads to fall off the desk striking his left index finger causing a fracture to the first joint .
there is no specific incident related to this illness . the employee believes after conferring with his doctor because he is often on his knees , it could be that due to grinding dirt into his skin and infection developed . although he first missed work 10/12/10 he did not report to the mine it was work related until 11/12/10 .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred on horse creek mains number 7 entry right return 1 break inby spad 374. the fall was approximately 40 ft x 18 ft x 6 ft to 8 ft . no injuries were reported and no equipment was involved .
he stepped on a motor base in the top of an old loadout to look for a hole in the chute and slipped and fell on his back . he fell one foot to the ground , bruising his back .
employee states as he was walking to mantrip he stepped on an unknown object , straining his right knee which resulted in a torn anterior cruciate ligament / medial collateral ligament .
employee was getting off the bus and stepped onto uneven ground , twisting his left ankle . he was evaluated by a physician and placed in a walking boot and released to full duty . use of the walking boot has restricted his activity and he is working modified duty .
a roof fall occurred in the 1w return at cross-cut 40 entry # 1./ the fall blocked safe access to number 3 seal of the 1l1w seals . the fall was located in a 4-way intersection . the caused of the fall was weak laminated shale .
the injured was moving a fire proof file cabinet with a dolly underneath it . he and three coworkers were pushing and pulling on the cabinet . the injured felt sudden pain on his lower left back   for a while and the next day he complained that his back was still aching .
employee was using a magnetic drill . it was snagged , and spun around and hit the him in the left forearm . he should have had the drill attached to a safety strap . he went home after he went to the doctor and return to work 3/30/07 - light duty . doctor released him 4/5/07
a frictional methane ignition occurred on the longwall face , shield number   32. the flame was extinguished within a minute .
while replacing pivots in the scales , i was holding pivot in place and began to hammer . hand slipped forward and hit it with hammer in turn pushing hand into pivot . pivot had been coated with anti-seize and grease .
a rock burst was discovered in the 4000-226 rasie and stope . it showed up on the rock burst monitoring system on saturday 10-23-04 at approximately   11:30 am . no one was working at the time . damage to the raise occurred at stope level ( 26 sets up form the sill ) and 11 sets above ( 66 feet ) . slight damage occurred int he east stope .
number 3 hoist tripped at 7:45 pm with `` drive converter a '' fault . electrician came out of the mine and repaired a contactor and reset the hoist . hoist was back in service at 9:00 pm . there were still two escapeways during the incident .
the employee was washing his area with a hose . the hose had a small amount of caustic running through it . while he was dragging the hose he accidentally turned the valve open spraying himself in the face .
the miracle run elevator doors would not open . the schindler repairman determined that a steel cable that opens and closes the automatic doors was broken . the cable was replaced and the elevator was returned to service at 1:30 pm .
employee was removing an old hooder above a box car and realized he was tied off to the hooder when it broke free knocking him off the top and sending him to the ground . he was able to disconnect before he hit the ground . he sustained damage to his pelvis , right shoulder and left knee . no surgery or bracing of any kind was needed .
a roof fall occurred in entry number 1 of the 1st west sub main at survey station 31410. the fall measured 50 ' x 19 ' x 6 ' . this area had been bolted with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
area fell between number 2 and number 3 entries return , 3,000 ' from active section . area developed 5-10-01. roof is slate bolted with 4 ' and 6 ' resin . fell rib to rib , 3-4 ' thick . there is a 1 inch rider about 2'-3 ' up . fall is directly across from spad 299. fall will not be moved .
a roof fall was discovered during an examination at the mine . the fall was located in the return aircourses on the 3 right panel . it measured approximately 30 ' in length , 20 ' wide and 4 ' thick . the area had been previously bolted with 42 '' fully grouted bolts . there were no injuries , no damage to equipment , and ventilation was not affected .
injured worker was removing a gear motor from the main spray tower tipping valves when the unit fell onto the injured workers left foot .
truck driver was doing pre-operation check at start of shift on number 219 pro-truck . he was descending the engine access ladder when he slipped . he landed on his feet , falling only about 1 foot . he experienced   a low back strain that later resulted in lost time . we recently received medical confirmation of this injury .
a contract employee was building a block wall at 30 cross-cut on the 4th southwest right side . employee was stacking block on the wall , when employee picked up a block and started walking toward the wall , employee tripped on another block lying on the ground . employee went down on left knee landing on the side of the block , causing a sprain/ contusion . the employee was taken off work .
when preparing to drill outside bolt , a rock fell from the mine roof , hitting employee on the left arm . cut his arm , received 11 stitches .
employee was getting out of loader , put foot on first stepdown when he stepped on 2nd step his foot slipped and he held onto a rail on loader pulling his right shoulder . sprained right shoulder , elbow   and wrist . steps were wet it had been raining .
while pulling on gasket material a 2 '' x 7 ' pipe fell striking employee on the nose .
employee slipped on mud on the concrete behind the shop and dislocated his left knee . he will be on restricted duty for several weeks .
employee was prying with a bar on the excavator track when the bar slipped causing employee to fall and feel pain in his back .
employee was making belt move with strained his lower back while putting in bottom roller .
slipped when exiting screen , fell to catwalk striking right side on handrail . bruised right side i the rib area . note : incident was originally classified as a doctor first aid ( non-reportable ) upon   follow up observation physical therapy ultrasound prescribed on 1-5-04 and is now reclassified to doctor treatable .
injured employee and another employee were inspecting the vertical shaft impactor crusher . employee was on top pulling on the handle and as the door lifted injured employee was helping by pushing on the bottom of the lid . when the door was partially open injured employee thought employee had control and quit helping and the weight was to much for employee to handle . the door slipped out of employee's hand and fell onto injured employee's right hand .
employee was opening a metal container of welding rods , when he took his glove off to get a better grip he cut his finger on the edge of the container . employee needed four stitches to close the laceration . working light duty , working the same hours .
employee was installing a new electric motor on a crushing plant when the other person employee . who was helping him hold the heavy motor lost his grip and the motor fell onto employee's   left ring finger and cut   same requiring stitches .
a plant operator was installing a bullwheel on a crusher unit . the spreader bar that the bullwheel was mounted on swung back towards the employee . the employee's fifth ( pinky ) finger was pinched between the spreader bar and a bracket causing a fracture and a laceration that required sutures to close . he returned to work that same shift .
direct contact with 2 employees with active tuberculosis . tested positive . also chest x-ray and lung culture . employee did not report until 3/17/03 .
an unintentional roof fall was found in the sub main number 5 entry on mobile mining unit 200-0 measuring 12 ' wide by 50 ' long and approximately   5 ' thick . this fall doesn't affect ventilation or travelways and has been timbered off .
a roof fall occurred on the number 3 intersection on the number 3 section 1 cross-cut outby spad # 46076. the fall measured to be about 20 ' wide , 30 ' long and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 5 ' torque tension bolts . the fall will be cleaned up and re-bolted and cribbed .
employee was unhooking skid from wagner scoop , when the ram came forward and pinched little finger on left hand while he was unhooking chain . laceration which required 7 stitches to close wound .
employee states that he was climbing down off of his front end loader when he felt a pinch in his back .
employee states he was working on a truck removing a flywheel . he does not know how he got some metal in his eye .
employee went to see doctor with numbness in his left hand , after test were done the doctor said he had carpal tunnel syndrome in his hand . the doctor also said his right hand is experiencing some symptoms . doctor said it was from repetitive motion of operating a loader for several years .
while the employee was hooking up a hose for the pressure pump , the manifold blew off and the water force knocked the employee into the feeder , thus bruising his hip . the employee was placed on restricted duty . first day restricted duty 07/13/00 .
employee was returning to the security station from her patrol of checking change rooms . she slipped on a patch of snow covered ice and fell . she fell backwards hitting her back , tailbone and back of   her head against the ground . she has sore neck and headache .
roof fall in the brushy mains between survey stations 14081 and 14085 in between number 1 and number 2 entries . mine safety and health administration inspector found this fall during his examination .
did not start losing time until 7/22/04 . he hit his head on a dolly on monorail and had pain in his neck . he has had nerve blocks . did not help . started losing time on 7/22/04 for surgery .
while laying track on 4 section , moving rail with lo trac , operator let rail down onto employee's left foot . employee did not start losing time until 3/19/2009 .
the employee was opening an access/ inspection door on level 8 of the preheat tower . he attached a come-along to the door and raised it . the recessed in and has to be manhandled to maneuver it . as the employee was pulling the door away from the frame . his right ring finger was pinched .
employee was assisting hang monorail structure in the number 3 entry of the c-5 longwall panel . he was attempting hook one end of a piece of structure into the piece that had just been hung . the end of the   structure slipped out of employee's hand and in his attempt to catch it , he strained his left shoulder . he began to miss work on 8/15/01 due to problem
employee aligning large pipe ( 12 '' to 14 '' ) diameter to install a tee in the pipe line - was using a chain and komatsu wa2oo , put self in twisted position to assist in the lift .
current audiogram shows standard threshold shift from comparison audiogram .
a roof fall was discovered in the number   6 entry inby spad number 1394 . the fall measured approximately 18 ' x 18' x 8 ' high . there were no injuries with this occurrence .
while installing roof bolts in number 3 entry a rock fell from the top and bounced off the drillpot and struck him in the upper lip and nose area . he sustained a laceration to his upper lip area .
employee was working inside silo 18 cone in a sitting position when he got up he felt a sharp pain in his back .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 5-block mine that measured approximately 20 ' long x 10 ' wide x 6 ' high . the fall fell behind the continuous miner , cutting the cable . the miner was in the number 4 entry , spad # 189. no injuries were reported . the area was developed 5-7-09 .
employee was working on 785b and needed to climb ladder to gain access to the brake accumulator . the ladder on his truck was a 6 ' ladder and was too short . he got the customer's 10 ' wooden ladder   . while climbing the ladder , it broke causing employee to fall .
injured was setting up actuaries on fan deck at dust collection baghouses . finished one and turned around to change another when he stepped into a void left by a piece of grating that had been removed and not replaced . injured suffered a strain to the right shoulder when he caught his fall .
employee initially stated he was walking alongside the number 6 belt and dragging a rockdust hose when his right knee started hurting . medical received 10/18/01 shows , 1. findings compatible with previous   meniscectomy . 2. small cyst adjacent posterior cruciate ligament . 3. mild degenerative changes . he had right knee surgery 1989 , right knee strain 1987 , right knee injury 1982. this is not
employee was using a box cutter to open box of caps when cutter slipped and hit his right hand . employee received lacerations to the left hand requiring stitches . employee was taken to doctor . employee was released   with no restrictions .
employee was sitting in rail motor and a loose car came back and hit motor . employee injured his left shoulder . he had hurt the same shoulder before and required surgery in 2001. started missing   work on 2/18/04 .
the employee was assisting coworkers in carrying a 15 ft steel rail into the 4th main north belt line , as they went under the water line , he felt a pain in his lower back .
after turning a right handed cross-cut , employee was backing out of the 4rt cut when a piece of draw rock fell . the draw rock rode back along the rib . the rock was approximately   12 ' long x 3'-4 ' wide x 6 '' thick . the rock pinned his right foot to the mine floor .
employee was getting into the trackhoe and lost his footing on the step and fell . employee tried to catch himself and felt his shoulder pop . it rained the previous weekend and the tracks were muddy .
a roof fall occurred in the number 4 entry main south @ survey station 3 + 60. the fall measured 40 ' long x 19 ' wide x 15 ' thick . this area had been bolted with 5 ' fully grouted and 9 ' double lock bolts . the area will be cleaned up and rebolted .
north 6 , 15 block , cross-cut 2 to 1 , mobile mining unit 002 . 30 ft wide x 18 ft long x 7 ft high . support : 6 3/4 in resin bolts , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee was working on a scoop in the number   3 right cross-cut , when a rib rolled off , pinning him against the scoop .
employee was walking in front of mike davis's office and he turned to walk on sidewalk . he then turned his ankle and his knee .
employee was using a 3/4 '' drive ratchet bar and socket to remove bolt of final drive cover . the bolt broke loose causing employee to hit his left side of his face on the frame of the shearer cutting his ear and face . employee had 4 stitches put in his ear .
employee was pulling drill steel out of drill pot that was stuck . when the drill steel dislodged it struck the employee over his right eye causing a laceration requiring stitches . no lost time .
the employee was splicing a wire on top of the number 3 kiln backend . the wind started blowing dust from the stockpile and the kiln backend . no matter what direction the employee turned , the dust still got in his eyes .
employee was working out of the bucket of the loader when apparently the ventilation elbow tubing shifted hitting the employee in the lower left leg .
employee was a passenger in a mantrip traveling out . while backing up the mantrip ran into rib and hit employees arm against the rib . employee went to good samaritan hospital sustaining a contusion to his arm . doctors ordered to remain off work for an uncertain period of time .
on 2/14/13 a millwright was removing a stuck upper nose roller pin on the fairlead frame of the 12dl when the pin popped loose striking the technician on the side . the tech continued to work while being seen by a physician over the next several months . on august 8/22/13 he received medical treatment that makes this incident a medical reportable injury .
employee was using the vac truck in the apron . as he was pulling the hose around the tail wheel , the hose went into a pile snapping his wrist and thumb forward . he had a hold of the stick attached to the hose . this was not reportable until 05/30/07 when he had surgery . ***
employee was pushing a wheel barrow loaded with coal material at number 2 belt drive , when wheel barrow shifted he tried to correct it and strained his right knee . he underwent an mri on 9/28/06 . the preliminary results communicated on 10/2/06 that he has torn meniscus to right knee and surgery necessary for repair .
hose on triple seven caught on fire because of pressure . employee did not follow safety and jumped off the truck .
ice fell from the service shaft while employee was working at the shaft bottom .
employee was removing the insulation on the termination end of an electrical cable using knife blad of a multi tool device . the knife blad slipped off the insulation and cut employee's left thumb . left thumb laceration required 2 sutures . no restrictions .
unintentional roof fall 1 break inby spad number 13379 in number 5 entry . dimensions : 50 ' ( long ) x 20 ' ( wide ) x 6 ' ( thick ) . roof fall was found at 3:15pm .
employee was shoveling material off of vs 2b screen and he pulled a muscle in his left shoulder .
employee was filling conveyor drive hydraulic reservoir using a 5 gallon bucket . employee lifted the bucket and turned to his right and foot slipped on oil . the employee reported a sharp pain to his left knee .
injured was watching a coworker operate a scoop when he was struck in the head by some unknown object .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at 53 block on c-mains section in cross-cut 6-7 and face of # 7. top is very soft unconsolidated `` slicken side '' rock . dimensions : length 60 ' , width 18 ' , height 6-12 ' . support : 5' resin .
a roof fall was discovered in the primary escape way 3 cross-cuts inby number 2 belt drive at spad number 1203. the fall was approximately   30 ' long x 19 ' wide and had fallen above permanent roof support . the fall was discovered and reported to mine safety and health administration .
sitting on screen trailer catwalk pulling on come-along handle to lift impact feed conveyor tail pulley off ground
walden's employees were water blasting the chambers of a vertical kiln when the water and material reacted within the kiln building pressure enough to blow the hot material out onto the employee . employee had standard water blast personal protective equipment on .
employee was cutting angle iron and the blade broke off cutting right leg .
cleaning chute for hydrator number 1 , the employee was wearing a powered air purifying respirator ( respirator hood ) . the employee believed employee was done cleaning and had opened the hood shield to clean fogged glasses , when material fell in the chute getting hydrated lime in eyes .
employee was putting belt guide on dolly pinching finger between dolly and guide .
cut ( left ) forearm on unknown object ( possibly zip tie end or weld ) while placing drill steel in rack .
rock fall occurred on 2 left off 1 south east mains number 3 entry break # 32. measured approximately 20 ' wide x 30 ' long x 8 ' thick .
employee was running haul truck , the truck slammed up and down which causer her to sprain her back .
employee was descending off a belt transfer platform when he stepped on a rock rolling his ankle over. cause of this injury was safety awareness . compliance with rules/regulations was not a factor , protective   equipment not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
employee was tightening bolts on base plant crusher . the wrench slipped causing strain to left thumb and hand . rigid splint .
employee was picking rock off belt line at the clean coal crusher , when he lost his footing and fell .
employee was struck in the face by sand hopper on number 13 mantrip when guard re-railer came loose . result was a fracture ( minor ) to his nose . medical treatment only , no work days lost .
employee was assisting in construction of retaining wall for earthen ramp . blocks are 2 ' thick x 2 ' wide and offset half a block each course . when stepping from one course to the next employee felt a pain in groin later diagnosed as a hernia . employee is restricted from lifting heavy weights and may need surgery . amendment : it was later diagnosed as a strain , not hernia .
employee was in the basement unhooking deck panels from the center well hoist that were being lowered down from the 3rd floor . employee was positioning one deck panel over another when he felt pain in his lower back . he begin missing work on 11/29/02 degree 3 class 9 .
he and two coworkers were moving a continuous miner along the main west entry . after tramming the miner to a cross-cut , the three man crew were placing the miner cable along the rib out of the roadway . all three men lifted and carried the cable over to the ribline ; the two coworkers dropped the cable causing a jerk to the injured's shoulder resulting in pain .
employee and coworker was lifting handling an i beam when he strained/sprained his pelvis . employee went to a doctor in mount   carmel , illinois and was diagnosed with a hernia . employee had surgery on september 08 , 2011 , in which at that time became a reportable accident and will be off on workman's     compensation for an uncertain period of time .
while uncoupling two man busses that were blocked against motion , the operator of the man bus activated the automatic uncoupler , pinching 4 fingers on the individual's right hand .
employee was backing the loader out from the modified stone pile when the steering wheel spun around and jammed his left arm back causing injury and pain to his left shoulder .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal on the 5 west headgate cross-cut 58 between number 2 and number 3 entry . the fall was approximately 32 ' long , approximately 12 ' wide , and approximately 6 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of workers . the fall will not be cleaned up . fall number 27 n
injured employee normally works in scalehouse . he was asked to run a loader in plant to help load rail cars . he did this for two hours and alleged his back was sore 7-14-00. he said he fell in his yard 7-14-00 , went to emergency room doctor 7-14. he was referred to another doctor on 7-25-00 .
employee was pulling timber out of chute with come-alongs , with pressure on come-alongs . timber popped out , come-alongs flew back and mashed finger against belt hanger chain . reportable only due to stitches   .
while employee was performing ug welding repairs on a continuous miner at f-9 , a piece of roof fell cutting oxygen and acetylene hoses . gases gathered , apparently filling his welder's glove . a welding spark ignited gases blowing the glove off his hand and causing burn injuries .
mn cross-cut number 8 belt line painting numbers on stoppings when his boot got stuck in the mud wrenching his back . it was on the 4 to 5 cross-cut side of the belt . he was trying to pull his boot out of the mud when he twisted his back .
employee was bent over swinging a sledge hammer busting a concrete floor . he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . he continued to work and finished working his shift . he experienced numbers in his left foot and pain in his left leg the morning of 10-14-04. he went to the doctor whom told him to take two weeks off work .
while removing roller frame from hardbar pin , roller frame slid out and wedged the punch against his finger and roller frame .
employee was standing on top of roof bolter trailing cable to help unwind the cable as the machine trammed forward , cable pulled tight and caused employee to fall. employee hit his head on the bucket of a scoop car and lacerated his head . 2 inches long and located above left eye , 6 staples to close cut .
the master control board on drive number 1 of the production hoist became damaged . the problem was troubleshooted   and the control board was replaced . the production hoist is the second escape way out of the mine . after the master control board was replaced , the hoist became operational again .
the employee was moving large stones from a pallet on to the conveyor . employee felt pain in his left wrist when pushing a rock . diagnosis : left wrist strain .
on 3/13/2014 a roof fall occurred at 45 break on the 1 right 1 west in the number 3 entry . this report is being filed due to citation 9112033. the roof fall was called in to the mine safety and health administration hotline on 12/5/2016 to abate the citation . the current operator was not the operator of the mine when the fall occurred . eastern associated coal company , llc was the operator at the time of the fall .
employee was returning boat to dredge . he was on deck chaining boat off when the high wall collapsed and caused the boat to pull away . the hook on the chain stabbed his finger .
employee was assisting drill operator change hammers on drill . tools used were the hydraulic operated pipe wrench and a j wrench . employee placed j wrench on the drill steel so that it would rest against the mast while the pipe wrench turned the hammer when hammer broke loose , the j wrench kicked back striking the employee in the ribs .
a piece of wood/dust from pallet flew into employee's eye . employee had eye protection on .
employee was helping unload steel from a delivery truck and strained shoulder .
while busting up concrete , a piece of rock or metal came up striking employee in the right jaw causing a laceration . employee was treated at raleigh general but was referred to another physician to remove foreign object . employee had foreign object removed on may 16 , 2014 .
miner was putting a piece of pipe with a torch and the pipe broke loose burning his arm . over the weekend the burn wound became infected resulting in fever and general malaise .
was pushing a bolt in hole with bolter wrench and when plate got against roof it turned a piece of drawrock loose and struck him on right side of face .
employee was roofbolting . as he prepared to put the second steel on , his intention was to raise the mast . his gloves were wet and his hand slipped off and bumped the clamp lever which closed on his middle finger and thumb . medical treatment injury
while working main entrance employee felt lightheaded and fainted . coworker checked on him and found lying on ground . employee called operator employee for assistance and they called 911. paramedics     responded and transported employee to local hospital for observation .
riding to section in a mac 12 rubber tire mantrip . while making a turn toward section the mac 12 hit rib catching self-contained self-rescuer storage box shoving it onto a fire extinguisher and the fire extinguisher hit employee's hand . the right hand palm was cut requiring 6 stitches
employee was cleaning out bottom holes and slipped on muck with rock drill oil . employee seen chiropractor on 8-27-02 .
two employee's were loading gt-60 drill steel from the ground onto a truck with a drill steel rack . the ground in the area was uneven and when they put it onto the truck , the drill steel dropped on employee's hand and smashed his knuckles . employee had pins inserted in that hand when he was 13 years old and stated the hand felt different , so we took him to the emergency room .
while prying off a bearing housing off of a pump drive on 114 drill the pry bar slipped and employee hit elbow on alternator bracket .
employee was changing teeth on trackhoe . he was hitting the tooth with a hammer to knock off when a piece of metal chipped off and went into right arm .
employee was installing a light fixture in the ceiling of the 01 portal conference room . as he was attempting to position fixture , he lacerated his thumb on the frame of the fixture . there was no da mage or impairment to the mining operation . the injury did not involve compliance , job skills , proficiency , training , attitude , or protective devices . employee was not wearing gloves . ( protective i
injured employee was replacing a roof bolter hydraulic fitting near the base of the atrs . injured employee completed the work , the control side operator approached , did not see the injured employee and thought maintenance work was completed . the operator started the machine and swung the boom in pinching injured employee between the boom and atrs . injured employee was treated at the local emergency room for a broken clavicle and released .
while rigging up a drill rig , derrick was in horizontal position suspended approx 1 ' via the gantry rigging . a gusset supporting a wire rope saddle failed allowing the line to slip off . the derrick fell the 1 ' onto crib blocks . employee was maneuvering the crib block at the time , intending to expose the derrick area in order to paint it . his hand was caught between the cribbing and derrick .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal 4 north bleeders , entry number 4 6356 north , 823 west. the fall was approx . 35 ' long , approx . 18 ' wide and approx . 12-14 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will not be cleaned up . fall # 21e .
a roof fall occurred in the main west return . the fall was 50 ' long , 18 ' wide and 7 ' high . the fall was between cross-cut 18 and 19 cross-cut and not in the intersections .
while stepping down from a tailings dam manifold box , employee felt a sharp pain on the inside of his right knee .
employee was assisting with realigning the bearings on the slope belt with a come-along , when employee felt a strain in employee's lower back and abdomen .
while lifting and moving cable and water line against the rib and out of the travelway pulled a lower right back muscle . he finished his shift but sought medical attention the following day and was placed on a weight and bending restriction .
employee was cleaning dust out of the number 2 dust chamber when dust got under his glasses and into his eyes .
employee reported when moving a rock knocker that had fallen off a haul truck , employee felt a pop and pain in employee's left arm . surgery performed 3/19 for a left elbow distal tendon rupture repair .
employee was assigned ( with others ) of replacing a limestone weigh belt ; this is an endless belt approximately 4 ' wide x 18 ' long . much of the replacement of this belt must be done by hand and is heavy   and close fitting . during the process of replacing the belt the employee felt pain in his left shoulder .
reaching into steel pipe under rail car to obtain sample , employee cut right index finger on sharp edge where 2 pipes come together at a y . received 5 stitches .
employee was setting timbers around the new power center area , when the corner rib rolled off striking him on the left ankle .
employee was bolting top when a piece of sand stone fell and hit him in the lower back . the rock was 1 ' thick by 2 ' long by 1 ' wide .
the employee was injured when he tried to put the rub rail back on the miner . the employee stated that he felt his knee `` pop '' .
a power surge halted the hoist approx . 100 ' from the collar . a blown blower motor fuse and primary t205 fuse was found . eleven miners were trapped in cage approx . 2 hours while troubleshooting . hoist back in operation at 2:50 pm .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on grassy creek mains at cross-cut number 18 in the number 8 entry . survey station # 10354. the fall measured approximately 20 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' high . the fall has been dangered off and additional supports implemented on all sides . no one was injured , ventilation was not interrupted and no equipment was caught . this fall will not be cleaned up .
yellow wire holding bacon strap on atrs pad broke causing bacon strap to hit fore head above right eye . cutting fore head . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
a citation was written for a failed ground support , citation # 6270509. the findings of the internal investigation showed that there was a drilling and shooting problem , not a failure of the ground   support . this should be verified by the mine safety and health administration technical support group as they were called to offer an evaluation of the underhanded mining method and the paste being used .
employee and co worker were moving manlift in its tilted back transport arrangement . the support brace and locking pin were difficult to engage and check for proper positioning . the brace collapsed and the manlift fell , striking one employee , lacerating his scalp . seven sutures were needed .
employee was rolling up 4 '' water hose and he heard something pop in his right shoulder . he was experiencing   a lot of pain and did not have much movement in shoulder .
employee was standing next to an exterior metal storage cabinet when a very strong gust of wind blew the door open . the edge of the door struck employee on the right anterior portion of his cranium , resulting in a laceration .
fall was in the track entry number 3 on number 2 section - nearest spad no . 21045. fall was 20' long x 20' wide x 54 '' thick approximately   4,000 ' from the face . a clean-up plan is posted and fall was reported to both state and federal emergency hotlines . no injuries occurred . no one was trapped .
employee operates a loader . his left shoulder has been bothering him for sometime . he went to the doctor and he advised that it was work related and involved repetitive motion .
employee was in the process of removing a sprocket with another mechanic . employee stepped back to observe the sprocket while the other employee struck it with a 8 lb sledgehammer . a piece of metal came off and struck employee in his right forearm . first aid was given and employee was transported to emergency room . doctor referred employee to a surgeon .
employee got left ring finger caught in a door that closed on her , she ended up with a couple of stitches
employee was driving client's vehicle he was 3 miles away from assigned post . he said engine stopped and he lost brakes and power steering , vehicle went into a 7 ft ditch . no injuries reported . when supervisor got to site , engine was still running .
employee was attempting to clear a frozen clog from hopper gate with a pry bar . clog came free , forced the bar down pinning his hand between bar , belt and hopper gate .
employee was carrying conduit and slipped on loose gravel , causing him to fall and injure his right leg .
injured was carrying crib block to mid face on the long wall face . as he was walking he started to drop the crib and grab to stop them from falling , got his little finger caught between crib and mine floor . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency may be a factor .
employee was moving steel pipe from outside into shop . the steel was smaller pieces and employee was picking them up from the ground and carried them by hand into the shop . he strained his back from lifting   and carrying them .
employee was working on dropping a rear end out of mantrip . he reached out to push it out of the way and caught his left forearm on cut off brake line .
employee was removing a set of belt scales off the belt line number 3 belt bk-26 he struck the scales with a 4 lb hammer and they fell down hitting his ring finger on left hand causing an avulsion which required surgery and placed off work until the wound heals . he was wearing gloves at time of incident .
employee was walking down launch on highwall miner , slipped on ice and fell to ground approximately 4 1/2 feet hitting left knee , then was transported to hospital .
a valve was stopped up making it hard to open and close . employee got hold of handle and rocked it back and forth . when it moved , employee's finger was caught between valve handle and bolt sticking up on another   valve .
while performing his normal duties as a scoop operator , employee experienced pain in right knee . employee has not missed any work however was placed on restricted duty starting 03/16/04 . therefore making this a medical report at this time .
employee stated that he was stepping into his motor and his foot slipped off the step . the employee landed on his right foot causing pain in his foot and knee . employee is a weekend worker and did not report off until 11-18-05 .
employee was thrown forward striking his head , someone activated the air doors causing the mantrip to wedge between the air doors .
this report is being filed under protest and solely to abate citation 9002338. according to mine safety and health administration , an employee ( social secutity number 9256 ) has incurred a reportable illness of occupational pneumoconiosis disease . brody denies that it breached and duty to report an occupational illness and reserves the right to contest the issuance of the citation and to amend and/or retract this report .
a roof fall occurred in the 8o to 8p recovery entries . the fall was in the number 3 heading between the number 2 and number 3 cross-cuts . this fall will be breakered off and does not effect the ventilation in that area .
the employee was barring down some loose rock on a rib underground . he was working on a rock 4 ft high when another rock fell onto his bar , knocking the bar out of his hands and onto his right foot.   his foot was bruised only , but was too painful to walk on for a couple of days .
employee pulled a muscle in his right arm while installing a screen panel on the digester scalping screen . this incident is being reported within 10 days of the employee seeking medical attention .
employee was clearing hopper in quarry with loader , when employee got off the loader to see inside of hopper a steel plate fell off and hit ankle/foot area .
operating a pit truck going to dump in hopper from muck pile , a 150-200 # boulder fell off load when making turn to setup backing to hopper . boulder was in travel portion of haul road . after dumping went to move boulder out of way manually , turned over twice and 3rd time his arm went pop , pop . thought pulled muscle , mri reveals tear in right bicep . didn't report until shift end ( 6pm ) .
employees were assembling a dredge ladder on site . while bolting the two sections together employee reached down for additional bolts placing employee's left thumb between the flanges . while the crane was holding one section the wind shift the load enough to smash employee's thumb , resulting in a laceration and fracture .
employee was attempting to close the door on the bottom of the kiln feed shelf of the preheat tower . employee pinched his right   thumb between the door and the door frame causing thumb to bruise under nail . employee was sent for examination where his right   thumb nail was drilled to release pressure .
welding broken frame on 1035 truck . employee wore safety glasses with side shield , instead of goggles .
employee was examining 3 belt around 48 wall when employee took a step and strained employee's left knee . the walkway in the area was level and had no obstructions . employee was diagnosed with a torn anterior cruciate ligament and began missing work on 5/5/17 to have employee's knee surgically repaired .
employee was removing shim bracket on a drum finisher and was using hoisting sling around the drive unit with overhead crane . the sling slipped from the shaft collar and slid causing the drum to drop about 3 inches . when the drum slipped the employee's index finger was pinched .
employee was removing a shear pin on a drag chain . he was using a punch to drive out the pin , missed the punch and hit his thumb . he was taken to the emergency room . and diagnosed with a thumb tip fracture ; pl aced on modified duty .
employee's foot sticking out of mantrip . pinched left foot between rib and mantrip . zone 21-block breaking 3 toes .
employee stated employee was operating the tail motor hauling supplies to the section . the lead motor was pulling the supply cars up an incline , the lead motor stalled and rolled back striking the tail motor . employee stated employee struck shoulder inside the operators compartment causing pain to shoulder . note : employee did not notify management until the 9/8/2017
an alleged ignition occurred on the 6 north mains section , 088 mobile mining unit , 0 entry approximately 115 feet . employee stated he saw an orange flame 1 to 1 1/2 feet from left cob , about 12 '' in diameter , lasting 1 to 2 seconds . self-extinguishing . no injuries or damage .
employee was backing up loader when 80 ' x 54 ' x 4 ' section of highwall toppled onto loader . he was entrapped for about 1-1/2 hours . he was extricated and transported to hospital for evaluation .
during a weekly aircourse exam a fall was found 20 ' outby station number 1860 in number 2 entry of north mains . the fall is about 40 ' long , 18'-20 ' wide and 6'-7 ' high . the area was bolted with 60 '' install   roof bolts with 6 '' x 16 '' plates and skins . cable bolts were observed in the surrounding areas . ventilation was not interrupted . no men or equipment were involved .
this accident did not become lost time until 10/03/2011 ! ! the employee was cleaning the shop ( sweeping ) when he bent over to pick up a metal shaft and felt a pain in his back . the employee continued to work his regular shifts and job task until he called in on the morning of 10/03/11 and said an mri showed a blown disc .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in number 130 mine in the number 6 and number 7 entry near spad number 5814 and 5813. the fall measured 100 ' in length , 19 ' in width and 8 ' in height .
hood on a d8t cat dozer stuck open and employee moved it causing the hood to slam shut . it caught his middle and ring finger between the frame and the hood .
employee was using a knife to strip cable for installation when the knife slipped , cutting the left thumb . stitches were required to close the laceration . released to full duty .
the employee was dismounting bolter . he stepped out onto the wing and it opened crushing his right ankle against the rib . he was transported to the emergency room for evaluation and treated for an acute crush injury to the right ankle and placed on restricted duty .
employee complained of back ( lower ) pain after boarding his haul truck . employee finished this shift and returned for his following shift on 7/29/06 . he completed the 7/29/06 shift . he did not miss work until 7/31/06 monday .
injured was building a brattice with mandoor in it . the employee was on their knees cutting a solid block that would be used to tie in the outby end of the stopping to the mine roof when the wall fell . some of the block fell on the employee smashing right 5th finger ( little finger ) causing lacerations and fractures .
on 3/14/2011 , employee reported to his supervisor that his back was hurting . he had been pulling on a knotted continuous miner cable and strained his back . he continued to work and later went to a chiropractor who referred him to an orthopedic surgeon . an mri revealed injured discs . he started missing work on 3/31/2011 , and will off at least 2 weeks depending on treatment .
employee was pulling the dredge with the tail line and rope got hung on dredge . at which time it caused the dredge to come to a complete stop , and in turn caused the employee to suddenly grasp the side of dredge   to keep from falling off .
the miner was holding open a steel ventilation door with his hand and foot to allow the airblast from the shot to pass through the opening . when the shot went off , the door was pulled from the miner's hand and struck him in the left lower leg and rib area .
getting off a mantrip and pant leg got caught on the ride causing employee to fall . employee torn employee's left bicep when employee grabbed the mantrip to keep employee from falling .
a roof fall occurred in the number 4 entry 1 break outby spad number   1874. the fall measured app . 20' long x 20' wide x 7' high .
a roof fall in the east mains in number 8 entry number 9 cross-cut measuring approx 60 ' by 20 ' by 6-9 ' . the area had been supported with 6 ' tension roof bolts and 9 ' mega bolts and timbers . there was undetected slip in the mine roof .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 4 entry at cross-cut number 360 on the mobile mining unit 001/002 section at spad # 3684. the fall was approximately 9 ' high and 45 ' x 30 ' in the intersection . the area was supported with 5 ' resin bolts and 10 ' cable bolts . the material that fell was shale and absent of any sandstone .
employee was bolting top in 6 face in high top and blacked out twice - falling from walk through bolter approximately 6 ' landing on head and right side - cut on top of head - bruised and stoved right shoulder , elbow , right thumb and bruises on right shoulder and back .
employee was working in waterhole where mix had been spilled . he got his feet and ankles and lower legs wet causing burns .
employee splicing conveyor belt when knife slipped and lacerated left forearm .
employee was heating up bolts with an acetyline torch . employee had the torch in their left hand and crossed their right arm over the flame burning their right forearm from elbow to wrist .
a roof fall occurred on the number   1 section in the number   1 heading . the fall measured 20 ' wide , 20 ' long and 6.5 ' thick . the fall has been breakered off and mining is no longer being done in this area .
the employee was working on the ground near a loader . the loader operator did not see him and as the loader moved , his right knee was struck by the loader bucket and twisted against the rib . the employee was seen by a physician september 5 for a knee strain and given a full duty release . on october 13 he had an mri that revealed a torn meniscus and he had arthroscopic repair on november 3 .
lowering red devil rope come-along lever slipped and caught thumb between lever and latching mechanism
employee was changing a boom jack on a fletcher bolt machine when he lost his grip on the jack . jack fell on finger catching it between jack and frame of bolt machine , injury caused laceration on left hand ring finger , ( 8 ) eight stitches were required to close laceration .
employee reported that over the course of a day and half of running the loader from the lower quarry to the north dirt pile he began to feel pain .
employee was stuck on livingston elevator at 1:00 am the elevator contractor was called and the employee was able to exit the elevator at 1:50 am . no persons were injured or equipment was damaged as a result of this entrapment .
employee's shoulder became sore throughout the day while changing a balling feed screen on 4/21/08 . this was initially a no treatment case , but the employee began receiving physical therapy on 6/12/08 . per doctor's notes , this is an ongoing problem for employee . mri indicate arthritic changes of the joint . symptoms and pain were evident 7-8 months prior and not related to activities of 4/21/08 . *
employee was sealing leaks in number 3 finish mill dust collector screws . the collector screw caught his glove and the screw cut his left index   finger . the laceration required stitches .
operator opened sample port on crystallizer tank . steam was discharged from the sample port burning the operator on his right hand and forearm . the operator was wearing gloves and appropriate personal protective equipment .
riding in a battery powered mantrip , at a belt drive boom hole , the mantrip driver decided to turn the mantrip around , the victim did not keep his head down in the low seam height and he hit his head on the mine roof .
a roof fall was found by the fireboss during his weekly exams . the fall is 60 ' by 20' by 4 ' high . the area was bolted with 42 '' resin bolts . the mine is idle .
while employee was descending the right side of the front-end loader he fell to the ground resulting in a left knee injury ( inflammation ) . doctor immobilized the left knee ( knee brace ) and issued work restrictions . employee returned to work and was accommodated for his work restrictions . employee will be re-examined on september 6 at 9:00 am .
employee is a long time loader operator . he reported on 6-14-04 that over the last nine month his left hand has become numb and tingling . he has been since diagnosed with carpal tunnel of left wrist . surgery is scheduled for 8-16-04. he has had no lost time up to that date . this report prepared when notification of surgery was confirmed .
employee was tasked with loading operations with another employee . employee attempting to traverse into a shallow excavation . the excavator teetered forward onto the floor the pit causing a jarring of the excavator . during the jarring employee braced left hand on the door frame with fingers outside of the cab . the jarring subsequently unlatched the cab door striking the exposed fingers .
employee was helping maintenance work on c-34 conveyor belting when his left hand was pulled in to pulling block between 3/8 '' cable and sheave . the cable tightened causing his left hand and fingers to be pulled in to block , lacerating and breaking his middle finger and partial amputation to his pointer finger . ( first joint )
employee was replacing starter in haul truck . thought he had bolt started when starter fell and smashed his finger .
working from a platform while installing concrete forms , employee slipped while picking up employee's pliers causing employee to hit employee's forehead on installed rebar . employee received 13 sutures to employee's forehead and returned to work . employee was using fall protection at time of injury .
employee was welding on plant equipment , material entered employee's eye . employee did not feel that treatment was needed until several days later . employee reported to supervisor and then taken for treatment and the metal was removed from his right eye .
the employee was removing the sand trough . the sand trough was being supported with a chain attached to angle iron on the trough and held by a trackhoe . the weld on the angle iron broke . this caused the sand trough to fall and strike employee's left big toe .
employee was welding some screws of a transmission in the conveyor of the plant number 2 and when he was going to get up , he could not get up , feeling strong pain in the waist and the upper body .
employee was stepping across an empty pallet , when a board broke and his foot fell through the pallet , twisting his right knee .
employee was walking out of plant when he tripped and struck door with his left shoulder . employee wanted to wait a few days to see if the pain would go away but it didn't , employee was taking to seek treatment on 3-26-12. employee has been on light duty since 7/11 . employee has had an mri done on his left shoulder and seeing another doctor about his rotator cuff .
employee was ascending ladder . as he reached up to grab the next rung with his right hand to pull himself up , he felt pain in the area of his right shoulder . persistent pain , so employee was taken 1/5/05 for medical evaluation   where he was diagnosed with a strain in his shoulder/rotator cuff . the employee was placed on restrictive duty and provided medication . awaiting results of mri .
employee and phelps dodge employee went to the scrap iron pile to retrieve some nose cone caps that were discarded by phelps dodge . half of the pin that had been cut into and the cap were found.   they drug it over to the pick-up to load it in the truck . the pin and caps were picked up by hand at the rear of the truck . while stepping back , employee slipped and they were dropped on right leg
drill steel was hung up in hole , pulling on machine came out quick and smashed `` right '' ring finger between rib and jack leg which cut tip of `` right '' ring finger .
employee was using a battery powered drill and it caught and twisted his arm causing discomfort in his elbow .
plant operator , was using a 6 ' spud bar to clean off caked material on top of the r107 reactor . while poking with the bar he noticed a pain in his lower right back . he continued working throughout   the weekend and by 8/25/03 the back pain got bad enough for him to seek chiropractic help . this was reported to the company on 8-27-03 and verified to this activity .
unintentional roof fall 2nd east panel number 5 entry , 51 and 52 cross-cut between intersection , traveling outby tail . 22 ' x 18 ' x 7 ' . bolted 6 ' tr bolts .
employee was attempting to remove ramps from trailer when hinge rod slipped striking his right hand .
a slick side rock fell from the mine roof , measuring 6 ' long x 2 ' wide , tapering on all sides , with the thickest part measuring approximately   6 ' thick , hit employee on left shoulder and injuring him down to his belt line .
employee was positioning an extension ladder when it came off balance and started to fall . she tried to catch it and strained her back as it fell .
employee was attempting to remove a blown hydraulic hose . he was removing a staple using two longwall hammers . the pick end of one hammer was inserted under the staple and the other was used to drive the pick and lift the staple . while hammering , the employee struck his left thumb causing a laceration . seven stitches were required to close laceration .
employee was going to thread a piece of pipe . holding the pipe in place , he started the pipe threader . his fingers were at one end of the pipe and the clamp on the pipe threader caught his left middle finger , clamping it to the pipe while twisting both the pipe and his fingers . he was taken to a local emergency room where he received stitches for a laceration of his left middle finger . returned light duty .
a roof fall has occurred in the 2nd right panel off the 3rd southeast submain at cross-cut 7 entry # 00. the fall measured approximately 20 feet in length x 20 feet wide x approximately 8 feet thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
an unintentional fall of roof caught the continuous miner while retreat mining was being conducted . the location of the fall was on 001 section number 38 break , app . 2 breaks inby spad number 7147 .
employee was descending down an exterior office stairway that was under maintenance , when a board/stair tread shifted causing him to fall forward and down the stairs resulting in damaged/torn tendons in his knees .
striking a pin with a 20 lb   hammer . pin diverted hitting finger between pin and hammer handle .
employee felt a pain in his right arm while throwing a track switch on oak springs bottom . he was later diagnosed with a torn bicep . ( lost time accident 6/16/14 )
while lifting a valve into place , employee bent over to grab the valve and strained his lower back . he started physical therapy 5/22/01 .
unloading a face drill out of bed of a hummer by hand , employee pulled on drill , lost his balance and the drill struck his right foot .
he was exiting a truck when he slipped on the running board and fell to the ground causing a meniscus tear to the right knee . he continued to work at his regular duties until 5/13/09 when he was removed for arthroscopic meniscus repair of the right knee .
employee complaints of pain and numbness to both shoulders and hands from opening and closing tight valves . continuous trauma illness to left and right shoulder resulting in rotator cuff tears - surgical repairs .
the employee was operating a loader when the left front tire blew out . the employee was jerked forward into the seatbelt . he went to the doctor , was given medication , and returned on his next scheduled shift . on october 14 , 2013 the employee was reassessed and assigned modified duty due to issues with his leg . he is expected to be out 2 weeks .
roof fall occurred on the number 9 conveyor belt . the roof fall was found at approximately 10:00 am . the roof fall is located 2 cross cuts outby the number 9 belt head drive . roof fall is in the number 4 entry approximately 65 ' inby survey station 4135. the roof fall is approximately 60 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8'-12 ' thick . this fall is outby the active section . roof fall reported to mine safety and health administration on 2/21/09 @ 10:25 am .
while scaling roof rock down , employee accidentally stuck himself in the ( right ) thigh with pointed end of rock bar . no lost time , medical only , 4 stitches .
employee states he sat in a chair in the mine lunchroom that he didn't realize was broken and fell over backwards hurting his back .
riding mantrip and crib fell over on mantrip .
at approximately 7:10 am two employees determined an inundation occurred and one of them immediately called mine safety and health administration . inundation consisted of south platte river spilling into pond . no equipment or personnel affected .
employee was using a weed eater to cut down weeds when he lost his footing and as he almost fell , he reached out for a jersey barrier to catch his fall . as a result he injured his left shoulder . employee continued working until he went in for surgery on 9/15/2011 .
injured employee unbuckled the discharge line on a pit pump . as employee released the quick disconnect coupling water struck employee in the face causing employee to jump backwards and trip and slide down the embankment to the sump . employee struck several rocks as employee traveled down the slope and this caused injury to face and shoulder . employee walked up the ramp to where a coworker was on the forklift moving material .
employee's right wrist has been hurting for the last month so he went to the doctor . tendonitis of the right wrist . restricted duty .
employee was performing maintenance on number 84 shield support hydraulic hoses . as he repositioned the tilt jack , he experienced pain down in his groin and testicle area , resulted in a hernia .
employee was racking out motor switch gear for fan # 71fa07 at motor control center j. he checked with the control room and asked if it was okay to lock it out , but failed to check the gauges to verify the switch gear was not under power . the employee disengaged a 4160 volt switch under load causing an arc flash and destroying the breaker . the employee was not injured .
on 07/26/2016 , the employee stated employee was removing the wheel/hub from 410 roof bolter . later in the shift employee stated employee was feeling pain in employee's upper stomach . this incident didn't become reportable until the employee sought medical attention and was placed on restricted duty on 10/10/2016 . this incident is being reported at a restricted duty .
employee was roof bolting when a piece of rock fell and struck him on the neck causing a laceration .
employee was checking back tire on scoop . operator , never knew he was there . scoop rolled back pinching back of right foot . this employee started missing work 4/20/07 .
unintentional roof fall occurred in number 8 entry , just outby spad 132 in intake entry . no persons or equipment involved , fall did not affect passage of people . fall will not be cleaned up , and will be breakered off . fall area approximately   2900 ' from section . fall is 20 ' wide , 90 ' long and 0-4 ' in thickness .
employee was hosing off windshield of drilling machine . a particle of steel that must have come from either the drill bit or steel casing blew into his eye causing irritation .
employee and 2 coworkers were in the process of hand scaling a development round , prior to loading for blasting . employee and 1 coworker were getting into the basket of the powder tractor , so the other coworker   could raise them up to reach the hanging . while getting into the basket a chunk fell from the face of the round , bounced off the face at a lower leve and struck employee in the lower back .
employee was helping crane men unlock strongback on floor when he noticed a anode was not properly in the saddle and decided to get on rack to fix anode and doing so he fell off rack .
employee was installing last roof bolt in number 7 entry . after inserting glue into hole , employee proceeded to put bolt in hole . while pushing bolt into hole , he experienced pain in his shoulder . x-rays were taken and diagnosed with a strain .
employee was walking in the number 3 entry of the 003 mobile mining unit and struck his head on a cable bolt that had been installed in the mine roof , requiring stitches .
on 11/11/04 employee was working on pump at the number 5 brattice and stepped in a hole and twisted his right knee . he worked his regular job until 2/3/05 when he had arthroscopic knee surgery and began losing time .
on 10/2/2012 employee came into work using crutches and stated that he had injured his back on 09/18/12 while operating a loader . on 9/18/12 , he left work around 3:00am without notifying anyone of his injury . he called in sick on 09/19/12 . he came back and worked the following days ; 9/20 , 9/23 , 9/25 , 9/26 , 9/27 and 9/28 . he then called in 9/30/12 and 10/1/12 .
employee was loosening structure bolts on belt structure and turned to get another piece of structure when he twisted his back .
employee was standing on the tracks of a bulldozer and slipped . he fell to the ground from the tracks .
employee was attempting to place a motor sheave in place for storage . the sheave rolled and smashed his finger between the sheave and tire rack . the finger required stitches .
employee complained of sore back while running scraper on shift . he was taken to town and he went to see a chiropractor , thus entailing mine safety and health administration reportability .
employee was attempting to exit pulverizer room at lab when the door handle jammed . he states the room became very hot so he used a pulverizer metal/steel cup to break the door window and sustained   multiple lacerations and cuts to his right hand .
allegedly while pushing a wheelbarrow down a plank , wheelbarrow got caught -- stopping suddenly with employee falling over the left side of wheelbarrow .
equipment operator was lifting a 5 gallon bucket of antifreeze onto the back of a komatsu loader when he pulled a muscle in his abdomen .
a roof fall 50 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' in the 2 main north parallel number 1 entry , number 7 cross-cut . this area mined in february 2001 and supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts . fall caused by an undetected slip .
employee was working on the back of the operator's cab of a 785 rock truck . he lost his footing and fell about 12 feet to the ground , landing on his feet .
employee was performing maintenance check . after determining , he needed additional transmission fluid , he laid dipstick on catwalk and began back and down steps of loader in fluid when he missed a   step , fell backwards stumbled and head whipped backwards hitting tire of loader parked bruise then one laceration to back of head requiring sutures .
employee was pulling the breasting wire on the center of te-5261 ( river barge ) and felt a pull/discomfort in forearm . he returned to normal duty that day , but the injury has progressed and doctor now decided he need carpal tunnel surgery ( 6-12-14 . )
employee was driving t post for fence . while driving t post he lifted t post driver too high causing him to miss the t post on the way down and caught his finger between t post driver and t post . has to have stitches in left index finger .
employee was engaged in scooping up a pile of loose rock to load into dump truck when the bucket of front end loader struck a solid rock ledge jerking employee forward inside of cab . employee was wearing seat belt   restraint at the time of incident . believed possibly that the impact from hitting the solid rock ledge may have caused the injury . employee was unaware of the existing conditions at the time of
employee exited his dozer , walking up tilt jack to top of blade to talk with another dozer operator . when returning to his dozer the same way , he fell off of blade and tilt jack head first , between blade and hoist jack , hitting his ribs .
while walking to the face of longwall , employee fell hitting right knee causing laceration that required stitches .
employee was climbing down into dredge engine compartment when he twisted right knee . employee did not seek medical care until 2-14-05 .
employee has informed us that he has been diagnosed with pneumoconiosis . coal workers' pneumoconiosis .
employee states he was pushing a ramcar up a hill with the ramcar he was operating . he pushed it up the hill his car climbed up on the car being pushed . when the car being pushed caught traction it pulled out from under the car doing the pushing and it dropped to the floor . the employee's hard hat came off and he struck his head against the canopy resulting in a laceration .
he was moving some h beams with loader operator , he was hooking up chain and put his arm between 2 beams . the beams shifted falling on arm causing a deep bruise to forearm .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in the number 1 entry on 2 left off 2 north mains 1 break inby spad # 2646. size 60 ' long x 4 ' high x 18-20 ' wide . was supported with 4 ' fully-grouted resin bolts . no injuries , no equipment caught , ventilation was not interrupted . fall will not be cleaned up .
a 2-yard lhd bucket was slung under the chippy hoist skip being hoisted up the jewell shaft . a guide shoe came loose causing the bucket to rotate into and tearing out 2 shaft guides causing the bucket to lodge into the timber . 4 shaft crew members riding inside the skip were uninjured but briefly stranded before being transferred to the adjacent double drum hoist skip .
employee was making repairs/troubleshooting inside an electrical box when he contacted an energized component .
an unintentional fall occurred in the number 8 main north entry at the 19+40 ' , number 27 cross-cut due to deterioration of the roof above the bolt anchorage . the area was bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts . intersection will be timbered off .
employee lifted a 20 ' pvc pipe with a steel 90 degree elbow and sprained his right shoulder .
the employee was pulling a loose rib with a slate bar . as the rib fell , more rib fell than he had anticipated , hitting the slate bar causing the employee to twist his lower back . the employee was referred to a specialist that ordered a cat scan . the specialist on tuesday 1/6/09 , after getting the cat scan results , released the employee to return to work on 1/12/09 .
employee was pulling electrical cable for motor at number 1 belt . he stepped down one step to make another pull and stepped on a piece of rolled steel , causing him to turn his ankle .
employee was operating crane . the form was in the concrete in the collar . he was trying to move the form to the bottom . the form was tight in the concrete and would move about 12 '' to 18 '' and the crane would   take the weight of the load . the audible and visual alarms would go off . this happened several times before the form moved out of the concrete collar . crane had a full load and turned over .
main breaker in substation tripped . when they first tried to reset breaker , it wouldn't stay in . hoist went down at 9am . mine safety and health administration was notified at 9:30am . hoist was down and came back up at 3:30pm
employee was driving a lube truck and struck a pot hole , causing her to bounce and hit her ribs on the side of the truck .
after cutting off some old rusty bolts off of a valve and using a hammer to knock them out of the flange , employee received a piece of steel in his left hand . he had the steel removed from his hand on tuesday the 3rd and started missing time on november 4th .
the jaw crusher became plugged , 2 employee's were working to unplug it . injured employee was using a bar to dislodge rocks . he lost his grip on the bar and it struck him on the right cheek . he applied an ice pack to the wound and initially thought he would return to work . after a short time , he decided he should go see the doctor . the doctor found he had broken bones in his cheek and jaw .
employee went to climb up side of dump truck when slipped and hit right knee .
injured was loading bolt supplies and felt pain in his back . he continued working and received medical attention and returned to work on his next scheduled shift . he worked until 08/22/2013 and went off under doctor care .
employee had shoulder pain after grabbing a hand rail when he lost his balance while standing on a loader battery box . after a mri was done , it was determined that damage was done around the shoulder rotary cuff . employee was put on restricted work on april 8 , 2009 .
employee was attempting to cut a piece of neoprene rubber off so that it would fit into place on a screen deck and the utility knife he was using struck him in the right   thigh area . the result from th is accident was 5 stitches to his right   thigh .
employee was cleaning the return rollers on the jaw under conveyor with a hammer
the canica crusher plugged up and employee climbed on top of the crusher to find the problem . he slipped on the material striking his knee against the crusher lid . this resulted in a small laceration requiring no stitches , but he was on modified duty for two days .
employee was injured when motor employee was operating along with another motor and 2 loaded flatcars became runways and collided with multiple manbus parked and being operated along track .
employee was grinding , cutting and welding when something got in his left eye . employee was taken to the emergency room and metal was removed that was embedded in employee's left eye . employee was wearing safety glasses .
employee was reaching for screen wire when his self-rescuer hit the roof bolter joy stick , causing the rotation of the drill steel , hitting employee's   left hand .
employee was bolting when one of his drill steels slipped off the tray and when he grabbed for the steel his finger was pinched between the bolter boom and the drill steel .
1/2 '' washer being used on a 3/8 '' bolt securing a 18 '' elevator conveyor belt ( 140 ' long ) with a c-clamp . laceration on head and bruising on leg .
early into 2nd shift the hoist ( koepe ) tripped out due to low air in the compressor . this shut the hoist down creating an evacuation due to not having two escapeways to surface . the mine was evacuated with no injuries or other problems . the issue was corrected and the hoist was put back into service at 6:20 am on 4/17/2012 .
employee was roof bolting in the face of number 3 entry . he was drilling a hole for the roof bolt closest to the rib in order to install a six foot bolt . he had just inserted his second drill steel in the drill pot . as he started his rotation a rock measuring 22 '' x 7 '' x2 '' thick fell from the mine roof ( a height of 91 '' ) and struck his left forearm requiring 8 stitches to repair .
the continuous miner jm4660 was cutting in number 2 entry , 1st south main at 33+70 and hit a bore hole in the center of the entry . this bore hole was not shown on the mine map . no methane was present.   no water or oil coming in at this time .
employee was kneeling beside the operator side controls of the number 5 fletcher bolter . as he tightened the 6 1/2 foot combination bolt , a piece of roof rock ( 1/2 size cse self-contained self-rescuer ) fell between canopy and bolter boom striking his left gloved hand injuring his index finger . his hand was resting on his thigh it was hit .
employee was caught in an elevator for 55 minutes . no injury occurred . mine safety and health administration was notified immediately .
employee was on top of hood to the right of the cab , making his way to the battery box . as he stepped down to the lower level his foot slipped . he lost his footing and landed on his back and wrist .
employee was performing his normal work duties when he experienced pain in his lower back . he was transported to williamson memorial hospital and diagnosed with muscle strain . this was contributed   to repeated trauma .
two belt rollers came out of the belt line and got jammed in the belt . belt was locked out . employee pulled out one of the rollers causing the other to fall . it struck his left hand , fracturing his fifth finger .
employee reported that while cleaning shaft station - he hung cable slings back on the wall and felt pain in his right shoulder 7 weeks later 7-31-02 unknowing to red path employee went to see doctor and 3 sess ions of therapy . redpath had no knowledge of theses medical visits until receiving work compensation forms from washington state . validity of clam is suspect and under review by washing state and redpath
loose rock fell from roof between bolt and rib . he was taken to hospital by ambulance and then released to go home after being checked out .
employee smashed finger while restacking drums . was reported as first aid only . employee went to doctor for unrelated issue on 8-15-03. doctor decided to drain pressure and x ray the finger . finger was not broken   .
roof fall discovered 10 belt 77 block , 6 ' high , 25 ' wide and 60 ' long ( approximate ) . fell on top of old , unused , overcast , knocking it down on top of belt . re-supported with 8 and 12 ' bolts , screen and floor to roof supports . fall occurred due to obscured deterioration of slicken sided clay material . no problems with training , personal protective equipment , mining methods or compliance issues .
a face ignition occurred on the e-2 longwall at 12:10pm . the power was de-energized and all government agencies were notified .
while bolting number 9 cross cut a piece of rock fell out between the rib and first installed bolt and struck employee in the neck . employee finished shift and sought treatment on 9/21/15 . he was placed off work and became reportable at this time .
team member reported to supervisor on march 6 , 2014 that he had been exposed to poison oak while repairing a damaged pipe . team member was sent to doctor on march 6 , 2014. he was diagnosed and treated for poison oak dermatitis . team member was released to work on march 7 , 2014 .
employee has been working for company since 4/2/74 . he has spent the majority of this time as a driller-powderman ( since 6/20/78 ) 23+ years . he was running an air-track for much of time , which exposed him to high noise levels . the air-track is no longer utilized .
employee was changing a liner when the chisel he was using slipped . he jerked back and struck his head on an object behind him .
employee was rock bolting when a fist size rock came out of the back through the wire ( 4 '' x 4 '' ) and struck the employee in the mouth .
employee was stepping through a 30 in . x 30 in . mandoor leading to the belt entry . his foot caught on the door frame causing him to fall .
he was hammering the chute and accidentally smashed his finger .
employee was using a belt knife while splicing a charger cable and cut his left index finger .
employee was turning off the water to the vacuum pumps on the 2nd floor of the prep plant . as he turned to walk away , he slipped on oil/mud and water that had accumulated on the floor . the employee twisted his right   knee and ankle . he also hit his head on the storage tank on the down stream wall .
employee went to see to company doctor on 7-12-01 and was placed on restricted duty . employee was cutting a live rubber belt inside the wet side main feed chute with a razor utility knife cutting towards him , in limited space , and cut his right   knee .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at this operation at 13:45 at cross-cut number 7 between number 4 and number 5 entries at the mouth of the headgate number 2 unit .
employee was removing metal band-straps from a pallet of 50-ton heintzman jacks . as he cut the last metal band-strap , one of the jacks sprung out and landed on his right foot . employee sustained deep contusion .
very windy - employee was walking into the shop when a foreign object blew into his eye , scratching his cornea thus having to go to the hospital and have the particle removed and a prescription   eye drop given .
upon completion of their shift , employee complained of pain and discomfort in his right eye . the employee washed his eye and experienced some relief . however , when the employee went home , the pain increased to   the point where he sought medical attention . although a foreign body was not found , there was evidence of rust that had to be removed . employee could not pinpoint specific activity .
employee was assisting with the assembly of the upper frame of a pegson cone crusher . a driving maul tool and 20 pound sledge were being used to help drive the concave wedges in place as a metal chip struck the employee in the left hand . the employee was taken to a local healthcare facility and stitches were required to treat lacerations in his left index and middle fingers .
the victim was driving his truck from the parking area downslope on the haulroad to work area . victim was following another truck when the victims truck hit a patch of ice and he slid eventually   striking berm the victim was not wearing his seat belt at time . the victim had a structure of the l1 vertebrae and is to rest .
moving a piece of 8 '' channel 12 ' long that was in a travelway . one employee dropped his end causing the other employee to drop his end on his left foot .
employee was lifting miner cable/pulling on other jobs felt pull and tightness in his back .
i got a call on tuesday , february 1 , cops looking for missing man . second call on wed february 2 , still looking . wed february 2 8pm - man found dead on mountain . he did not work for me , ever . did not know him . thursday paper described man found dead in weiser state forest . i was not allowed to enter property .
employee was removing the power modular from a dozer . he was standing between the frame of the dozer and the modular disconnecting hoses . he repositioned his leg and came in contact with an electrical plug bracket . he felt a pinch in his right leg but was unable to see what he was hitting with his leg . wears a support wrap and did not see he had cut into leg until he changed clothes .
employee climbed into the front end loader to start and warm it . the keys were not in the loader so he climbed out to get them . a hydraulic leak in the cab from the control console had saturated the floor and with oil on his shoes he slipped while descending the steps and pulled his lower right calf muscle .
rock fall occurred in the bleeder system up next to the pillar line in the 2nd left panel off 003 submains in the number 3 entry between the number 4 and number 5 cross-cut . fall measured approximately 20 ' wide x 60 ' long x 5 ' thick .
employee was mounting his resistance temperature detector he was on his second step when he lost his grip with his left hand . causing him to fall to the ground . employee got up and got in his resistance temperature detector and noticed that it hurt to push the brake . he called his supervisor . employee was checked out by a first responder and was then taken into the emergency room . xrays were taken and confirmed a break in his leg below the knee .
employee attempted to assist a customer unhook his tarping bar on his trailer , as he assisted the truck driver , bar came loose and struck the employee in the mouth . 10 stitches
replacing a belt structure rail at box cut - on number 1 slate belt . while lifting structure , had pain in lower back .
the employee was laying in a panline when he began to slide down the pan . he put his leg up to stop himself and struck it on a roller . the employee felt a pop in his left knee . the employee did not begin to lose time until 6/14/2010 .
west virginia occupational pneumoconiosis award 10 % . received notification 6-17-02. man worked at mcelroy 1 year - spent most of working years at shoemaker mine .
drill steel got broken during employee's shift . when employee stepped out of drill , he slipped and fell .
loader on top of highwall emptied bucket containing rock . water truck was driving through pit . rock ( approximately 10 - 14 '' ) hit drivers door pushing door handle into thigh of driver . driver bruised on leg - no break . truck door replaced .
employee was using a hammer in an attempt to remove a worn cutting bit from the continuous miner ripper head . upon striking the bit a piece of the hammer head broke and penetrated the skin , embedding   in his right thumb . employee did not seek medical treatment for this injury until 4-18-02. the metal was surgically removed .
the employee was hooking up a diesel tractor to a rockdust . the employee smashed his left little finger between the draw bar and the draw bar hitch on the tractor . 7 stitches and fractures of tip of finger .
individual had just moved a water pump and was getting back into mantrip when struck top of head on overcast i beam . this caused individual to jam neck . did not seek treatment until 5/17/07 . diagnosed with neck sprain and given prescription .
employee was lifting an oxygen cylinder and felt pain in his lower back .
employee was catching rock from chopper when a piece of rock struck employee in the eye ( right or left was not specified ) . worker was not wearing safety glasses as required . employee received a slight corneal abrasion . accident not reported until 2/29/2016 .
roof was bolted with split set bolts because of a hollow sound . months later it must of separated causing excessive load for this style and number of bolts . this fall has been checked by both mine safety and health administration and mine safety and health administration tech support . two boom jumbo drill was heavily damaged .
employee stumbled on a step . while regaining his balance the spring-coiled microphone cord on his two-way radio detached . the cord sprung up from the radio and the plug struck his left eye , causing   a corneal abrasion .
a roof fall occurred in the 4th northwest panel cross-cut   7 and 3 entry length 20' x width 25 ' x thick 10 ' . 4 way intersection the roof was bolted with 10 ' point anchor bolts .
employee was unloading a bolter atrs beam , when it slid out of the scoop bucket on top of his right foot . employee's first day away from work was 8/18/14 .
employee was cutting fasteners from feeder belt . he cut back towards himself , when the knife slipped , cutting his wrist .
roof fall 5th south panel entry 3 cross-cut 3 . maintenance employee found the fall around 12:49am and reported to management and they reported to the mine safety and health administration immediate accident number then went to get roof fall secured with timbers and dangered off and started investigation of fall . fall was 18' x 25' x 10 ' high bolted with 8 ' tr bolts , cable bolts , screened . fall is secured .
employee was installing a 10 ft 2 piece roof bolt in the roof . he was holding the coupler with his right hand and using the rotation to tighten the two bolts together . his glove got caught in the coupler causing his right arm to be pulled toward the bolter . he received a severe right shoulder dislocation .
operator of a 980f cat loader was checking a possible problem with his loader . he slipped and fell off of loader , breaking his left ankle .
employee was being lowered in man basket . basket stopped suddenly . employee was standing with legs crossed lighting a cigarette when basket stopped causing him to fall in squatted position . knee struck basket interior causing injury .
employee walked around continuous miner during set-up in face area . the continuous miner operator did not see him and he repositioned miner on centerline and the boom of the miner pinned employee's legs against coal rib . first lost work day occurred on 3/2/00 .
on 7/13/2015 doctor krasner diagnosed employee with a standard threshold shift in both ears . this has not been determined as work related to date .
small roof fall ( 1 foot to 5 feet for 10 feet x 10 feet ) in workway of 14 right ( mobile mining unit 009-0 ) tailgate that restricted safe travel . area was approximately 5 feet inby cross-cut number 28 in the number 1 entry   of 14 right   tailgate blockage plan implemented after mine safety and health administration notification .
employee alleges he was trying to line up elbow with a pump . there was a crack in the weld and it flew back and hit him on his arm , cutting his left arm .
as a welder , the employee was pulling on a large piece of steel and either pulled or twisted back .
employee was trussbolting when rock fell from the roof , striking him on the right side of his head and on his right hip .
employee claims that he felt a sharp pain to his lower back while he was shoveling waste quicklime from the area near quicklime bin # 8. he claims that he was using a large snow shovel . employee did not re port the incident until 2-7-02 because he thought the injury might have been from an incident that occurred at home . he was released by his physician to return to full duty on 2-11-02 .
employee was using a ratchet driven `` come-along '' when he pulled a muscle in his back
while operating a scoop the employee stated he ran over a crib block that he did not see in the roadway . the employee stated that the jerking motion caused him to have pain in his back .
the injured employee was cutting bags of ash feed material in our mill yard , and pulling the plastic lining out of the feed stock pile . as he was pulling the plastic from the stock pile he felt a pain   in his lower groin area , which resulted in a hernia .
employee alleges that while helping lift pump , he felt pain in his chest .
smoke was observed coming from an electrical pole southwest of the surface loci shop . stillwater mine does not believe this was a reportable event but is filing this report at the direction of mine safety and health administration .
employee stepped outside the handrail to clean his windshield and his foot slipped causing him to fall into the turn signal .
employee was using a razor knife to cut conveyer belting . the blade broke causing the knife to slip and cut the employee's hand below the thumb . laceration required 4 stitches to close the wound .
on june 11,2002 employee scratched his leg while moving a crate containing windshield glass for a loader . the rigging failed and came in contact with his shin causing a minor scratch on right   shin . due   to complications of diabetes , the scratch became infected and the employee was hospitalized over night on june 26 , 2002 .
employee was loading rock dust on his scoop and said he felt a sharp pain in lower back .
mechanic was using pressure washer to wash off mud from left hand and injected degreaser into palm of their left hand . mechanic was taken into doctor and treated for infection .
employee was cleaning a head drive when a foreign object entered his right eye .
employee has a history of back problems . he is 53 years . old . he carried some bottom belt rollers up belt line and afterwards his back was hurting him . this is an occupation illness . i talked to super visor in denver about this . didn't miss work until 4-2-02 .
employee was installing gate on mine road and while lifting on gate became unbalanced . employee originally starting missing on 4/21/2007 for personal illness . employee notified employer on 6/25/2007 he was going to seek medical treatment for back strain which occurred on 4/20/2007 .
injury strained his back while climbing a ladder . he has had previous problems with lower back strains and inflammation prior to this incident . he did not have what would be considered an accident . it was considered a strain due to his physical condition and age . the original accident occurred on 7/28/09 , but was not diagnosed until 8/3/09 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine north portal at cross-cut 13 on the flannigan travelway 1783 ' west . the fall was approximately 20 ' long , 18 ' wide and an unknown thickness . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will not be cleaned up .
as employee was grading the haul road , he hit a rock with his blade , causing a quick jerk to his back .
while dumping bags into the waste bin refeeder , worker felt a pain in his lower left back .
employee was lifting ventilation tube overhead in a confined work space and felt pain in his shoulder .
employee was attempting to lift a roll of mine curtain onto a supply trailer when he noticed a pain on his right side . the pain continued and on 1/28/02 he started missing work due to hernia surgery .
employee was assisting with the removal of a broken top belt roller . the roller was under tension from the top belt and when it was pulled free of the tension , it rotated upward striking employee on the face in the left cheek area .
while striking a steel punch , a piece of steel broke off and struck employee in the right arm . he was helpings to set bits on a continuous miner . the steel was removed by a physician .
fixing belt at plant with flexco and it slipped and cut index finger on right hand .
while lifting a section of conveying screw , employee suffered a thoracic muscle strain .
miner was feeding the saw table with a block of stone . as employee lifted and set the stone onto the table employee caught the edge of pinky finger against the metal table and the force of the stone causing rupture to finger
trying to get grease gun primed . hit gun on rubber sleeve of fresh water pump . there was a stud sticking out of rubber sleeve and finger was hit between stud and grease gun tearing off fingernail   and breaking tip of finger .
contractor had removed fasteners attaching set of steps to concrete wall . the steps were reset against wall after work was completed , without reattaching to fasteners . man descended steps , the slid   out from under employee . employee fell and rolled left foot over . employee was taken for treat ment on 10-27-01 after pain continued . xray revealed broken bone in foot . employee's foot was wrapped and a support shoe
a non-injury accident , the unintentional stoppage of the elevator at the oakdale portal entrapping 6 people onboard from 5:23 pm until 7:15 pm . a repairman from schindler was called to correct the malfunction .
employee was exiting a 10 sc shuttle car and lost his footing and went to catch himself and injured right hand .
employee was painting on processing plant and felt his knee pop when raising from a squatting position . continues   to work without restriction on 4/9 and 4/10 . became reportable on 4/11/13 when employee went to doctor due to discomfort . doctor requested that employee not work for 5 days .
employee was climbing up on fender to inspect for large rock . he slipped on a lower beam and fell sideways onto his right side causing injury . he fell approximately 21/2 ft onto a large rock
employee had pipe wrench on an airlock shaft trying to turn it . he squatted underneath the pipe wrench/cheater bar and pushed up , putting pressure on the top of his shoulder . this resulted in an apparent shoulder strain .
employee was welding on the left miner he was down on his right knee he twisted toward his left and when he did this he twisted his back and felt pain in his left leg . he was given 2 days away from work . ( after we received a copy of the mri report we would like to amend this to an occupation illness because we feel this single didn't cause his injury but report movement .
employee was hooking air and water hose to drill basket. rock fell from rib hitting his right foot .
reportable hearing loss per 30 code of federal regulations 62 based on annual audiogram . left ear - shift of 28.6 ; right ear - not reportable at this time ( shift of 19.6 ) .
employee was attempting to rerail a mantrip when the jack fell over and struck employee in the left knee .
employee was loading stone onto the conveyor for the thin veneer saw . a stone fell off the pallet he was unstacking onto his foot .
employee was attempting to dislodge by hand a 50 lb bag of product that had gotten stuck at the corner of the palletizer belt system : he caught his glove between the belt tail pulley and the guide that keeps the bags on the belt , lacerating the middle finger of his left hand .
employee in a heading when a piece of rock fell striking employee in the head . employee received sutures and released back to full duty .
employee strained right bicep while pulling pump hose . restricted duty .
employee was bolting top in number 7 heading on 1st left section , finished his row of bolts and was getting ready to advance pinner , when rock broke loose in between bolts and struck him on the head and shoulder .
inby spad number 10787 in the number 1 entry of 001-0 mobile mining unit a roof fall occurred in the bleeder of the section . the fall was approximateley 19' x 45 x 6 ' . the strata is mixed and wet .
cleaning out a piece of equipment ( vertical shaft impactor ) with an air chisel . a piece of dirt or rock got into his right eye .
independent contractor employee was inspecting panel interior for an arc flash study , 2 employees lifted panel cover ( 100 lb s ) into place secured with installed latches . panel cover bowed out at bottom . employee tightened bottom center latch screw with right hand while checking gap with left . cover dislodged fell catching employee's middle finger left hand .
lifting a block of flagstone with crowbar , block slipped and fell against left leg calf and shin . taken for x-rays to be sure of no broken bones . no bones were broken . scrape of skin and bruising   only .
fireboss examining number 4 belts , slipped and fell . caught himself with left hand , landed on left side , dislocating his left shoulder .
employee sprained right foot stepped in low area of shop . began restricted duty 4-8-01 .
moving launch on highwall miner getting ready to pull out when hose burst and struck victim in the back of the head and at the base of the skull . temporarily knocked him out while knocking him onto the launch pad .
employee was using flexane 80 putty to seal around bolts on the spf hopper screws . vapors being released from product caused some type of allergic reaction on the arms of employee . employee noticed itching and removed himself from area . a poison ivy type rash developed on arms .
employee was replacing belts on roof bolter blower motor . employee was rolling belts onto pulley which rolled backward , pinning his right hand between belt and pulley .
employee was removing a hydraulic filter with a wrench when employee strained lower back , causing a lumbar strain .
two maintenance persons were tossing a piece of irregular shaped scrap cast iron pipe into a scrap metal dumpster . piece caught edge of dumpster and spun and pinched two fingers between pipe and dumpster
phillips electrical technologies employee was drilling a hole to relocate a ground bar in an electrical panel . employee received an arc flash on his face , neck and arms . he was transported to grady hospital in atlanta , georgia for treatment of second degree burns and is expected to be released on 9/29/06 .
employee needed to clear a rock that was trapped in the tailgate after dumping a load . employee used employee's hand and pulled on the side pin of the tailgate to open it . the rock cleared sooner than expected and the pin cut employee's finger as the tailgate returned to the closed position . employee sustained a laceration that required stitches .
employee slid off dozer pusher arm striking left elbow on grab handle on rear of blade . this caused a severe contusion which led to a blood clot on 1-10-02 and employee was then hospitalized . employee work a full shift on 1-9-02 .
injury was working from a ladder next to a conveyor   belt when finish he step down off the ladder and strain his left ankle .
an anonymous caller informed mine safety and health administration there was a fire at stockpile # 4. there were no flames in the stockpile but steam and smoke were present from the dozer moving the coal to cool it down .
north mains 51 block number 5 heading , 4-way intersection mobile mining unit 003 14 ft high by 18 ft wide by 20 ft long . type of support , 6 ft resin , 6 '' by 16 '' plates . roof mats , screen acs jacks fall dangered off . additional roof support set around fall . fall clean up plan developed and posted at fall .
relocating shaker screen frame approximately 50 ft from original location with forklift . frame was being set down on 2 - 6 '' x 4 '' x 5 ' wood blocks due to shaft housing placement located on frame . as frame   touched blocks , it rotated pulling him in front , as frame fell it sandwiched him between it and 25 '' diameter pipe .
roof material from above and in front of longwall shields flushed onto face conveyor and walkway blocking egress for eleven persons for about 1 hour and 40 minutes .
note : employee did not seek medical for significant time following actual date of injury . medical status for days away 1/9/2018 . installing cylinder on loader , the cylinder slipped and forced weight to the shoulder causing their leg to slip out from under them causing strain to hip/shoulder .
while climbing off of the top head after doing maintenance , helper slipped and fell four feet to the ground . he instinctively extended his arm to break the fall and fractured his right wrist
employee was building a crib when he slipped and felt a sharp pain in his left knee . on 5/25/00 orthopedic doctor diagnosed the injury as medial meniscal tear in left knee . employee required surgery .
employee was moving a barrel of oil with a barrel cart . the barrel slid off the feet of the cart and partly tipped over so as to be leaning on an angle of about 45 degrees . he took hold of the barrel and stood it back up . in doing so he felt a strain in his groin . he went to the doctor who told him he had a minor hernia . he was released for light duty .
a methane ignition occurred in the 2 to 3 cross-cut on the 5 right section off of 3 east mains . the ignition occurred when a miner cable blew up which ignited the methane bleeders near the top of the rib near the mine roof . chemical fire extinguished the 1-2 minute duration flames .
employee was poking steel balls out of the chute at number 9 ball bin . the steel bar used as a poker gave way and his right hand struck the steel frame above the chute .
employee was getting ready to go through a 3'x 3 ' mandoor . he went through with his left leg and twisted right   knee which was supporting his body weight .
an employee was using a hammer to pound a pin while building the a longwall tail drive . the hammer slipped out of the users hand and glanced off of the pan line and struck another employee above the left eye causing a laceration . 12 stitches to close .
employee was backing haul unit under loader to be loaded with shot rock . as he neared the loader , his back tire rolled onto a slightly higher spot on the pit floor . this caused his bed to tilt up hitting loader arm . he received strain to neck/shoulder area . was first aid ( and doctor's first aid ) until 10/13 when he began medical treatment ( physical therapy )
employee was descending from haul truck . employee continued to try and descend with lunch box in one hand and the seat cushion in the other , while holding handrail . employee slipped on the last step and fell approximately 30 '' to the ground , landing on back side . employee didn't wish to see a doctor until the following tuesday ( 10/18 ) employee was put on light duty and went on vacation effective 10/19/16 .
5 north headgate in cross-cut , man was bolting of left side of miner when a rock fell from between the roof straps hit him on nose hard hat
employee was torching the legs off a stand employee fabricated and a glob of slag dripped onto employee's hand . employee received 2nd degree burn on employee's hand where the slag landed .
while working at east lime loadout , a 2nd shift vac truck employee stumbled over his boots and fell onto a handrail . the right side of his chest and stomach made contact with the handrail causing him pain . the employee was evaluated at the emergency room and given restrictions .
at approximately 9:15 am a miner was cleaning up at face and bucket hit a miss hole which was set off . hole was approximately 18 inches from the floor . no injuries were sustained . the 1.5 yard jci loader had a portion of the bucket lip damaged .
employee was standing in safe zone , while haul truck was dumping into hopper stones , come off haul truck , hopper striking employee .
injured employee was struck on the upper back and neck by a rock weighing approximately   6.3 lbs that fell approximately   70 feet from above from the rc4 belt . injured employee was treated by emergency medical technicians and emergency medical services then airlifted to camc general emergency department . he was admitted for observation and diagnosed with vertebrae fractures of the neck and tissue bruising .
while moving a dynapac roller on the job site the operator lost control of the roller . the operator removed the seat belt and jumped from the roller . the operator fractured her right leg when she hit the ground .
employee was standing in the truck shop and collapsed from a heart attack and pronounced dead at the hospital . emergency medical technicians     with deliberator were on the scene with in four minutes .
employee was walking to the head drive . employee walked beneath the highline and rose up before clearing it and jammed head . employee started missing 02/16/16 .
a roof fall occurred at 94 block on main north haulage . no injuries . fall dimensions ( intersection ) 24 ' x 22 ' x 6 to 8 ' high .
employee was placing jackleg drill onto bolt deck after completion of bolting . while laying drill down into holding cradle employee's right hand got pinched between drill and holding cradle causing lacerations to his right index finger that required sutures .
the employee was lifting up one end of a replacement auger to slide it into the bucket of the skidsteer . while lifting the end of the auger , the employee heard a popping noise and felt pain in the right   shoulder .
the weekly examiner found this fall on his weekly run in g entry of the north b return at spad # 5+99 the fall was approximately 20' long and 17' wide and 6' high . this area was mined in 5/1/2006 and was supported with 6 ' fully grouted bolts . no injuries or property damage . the fall is blocking the return as is being cleaned up and supported .
number 34 service hoist went down at 6:55 am . contacted electricians at 6:55 am . called mine safety and health administration at 7:25 am . electricians found a bad contact . hoist was back up and running again at 10:20 am . called mine safety and health administration at 10:36 to report hoist was in service .
employee was climbing into loader when he slipped and struck his head against top step causing laceration to scalp and contusion .
employee was out of loader checking on a piece of steel next to feeder . when walking back to loader a falling rock off a rock discharge shoot or conveyor belt fell and struck employee in back of head causing him to fall to the ground and become disoriented and bleeding acutely .
employee was changing drill bit on a press drill . employee failed to engage lock fully and as employee removed bit the drift pin fell . employees left thumb was struck . thumb bone was fractured .
employee was reclaiming stones from stock pile when a larger stone rolled down and smashed his finger .
employee parked mantrip , got out , was getting chock block out of rear compartment . truck started to roll down hill , employee tried to get back in truck and fell down or was knocked down by rear compartment of truck . this resulted in 2 broken ribs and broken bone in right foot ( metatarsus ) .
the employee was walking and slipped on some ice , landing on her elbow . at that time , she did not want to seek medical attention . then on 2-10 her elbow was still hurting and at that time she went to the doctor . she was placed on restricted duty at that time .
employee's left hand got caught in the belt clamps while working on the slope belt . resulting in 3 fractured fingers .
employee was holding a back up wrench while bolts were being tightened . the wrench pinned his hand to the body of the heater . this caused a fracture to his index finger on his left hand . employee is not losing   any time and is not on work restrictions .
employee was roof bolting . employee was walking back toward the back of the roof bolter to get more roof bolts when employee tripped over a piece of draw rock and twisted left ankle .
on 3/26/03 , employee was climbing on an extension ladder to weld on a shoot that was leaking , as he climbed to approx 6 ' or 7 ' the ladder slipped causing him to fall to the floor . due to the resulting   fall he received a fracture to his left hand , concussion and a laceration above his left eye requiring four sutures to close .
employee was cutting a roofbolt . when the bolt was cut into , the pressure on it caused it to swing around and strike the employee on the right index finger . employee was given a metal splint to protect from further injury . x-rays were negative
working in a manlift in tight quarters while changing a roller bearing , employee turned and struck temple on a piece of angle iron .
employee is stating that he was pushing a wheelbarrow on the concrete floor of the plant with approximately 10 lbs   of loose coal/mud in it . he crouched down a little to go under a structure and when he proceeded   he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . this caused him to go to his knees and then on the floor .
employee states he has pain in his left shoulder , elbow and wrist which he feels results from repetitive work such as putting cribs in the tailgate . employee was sent for an evaluation and it has been determined he meets the company workers compensation guidelines for an occupational injury .
employee was changing a tarp arm bearing when he heard a big bang and then the spring released hitting him in the left wrist .
mobile equipment specialist called into work on the morning of 3/12 and informed employee's supervisor that employee's back was too sore to come into work . employee said employee's back was hurting from performing pumping activities the day prior . employee was taken to the medical clinic on mar . 14th where employee was diagnosed with a lower back strain . restrictions and medications made this a recordable injury .
employee was inside the screen holding the housing bolts from turning the deister serviceman started drawing the bolt out , the bolt was driven out and flew at employee and struck him in the mouth , breaking   his right upper incisor .
employee was assisting with maintenance and walked up a ladder to hand off a wrench . when employee was stepping back down employee felt pain in lower back .
employee was operating a 773b cat quarry truck on the quarry bed when a spring broke int he seat he was in causing him to jam his lower back .
while loading 100 lb   bags , employee has experienced pain in upper back and neck area .
employee was riding out of the mine in a manbus , the bus hit a hole in the road and caused employee to bounce when he came down on his cap lamp battery causing a contusion to his right hip . this incident has been under investigation pending a medical evaluation  
employee was blow piping the feed chute to the 3/w crusher . some muck fell and struck the pipe . his left hand was on the shut-off valve and when the muck fell , it pushed the pipe back . his hand struck   the air cylinder , fracturing it above his ring finger . returned full duty .
employee was lifting a pump out of a sump when the pump slipped from his hands . employee grabbed for the pump and wrenched the right arm and shoulder , starting at the elbow . employee continued to work until 1/10/11 when his restriction for transitional work could not be met .
while removing a flight from a loader conveyor chain , a piece of metal flew off the flight when struck with a sledge hammer and hit the employee under bottom lip . employee received two sutures .
employee was changing places with the roof bolter at the intersection when he backed into the rib of coal causing coal and rock to break loose and come into the machine on his left side shoulder , neck   and arm .
the cedar creek service elevator was out of service from approximately 4:15 pm to 7:30 pm on 11/23/04 due to diodes on power board .
employee states he picked up the end of a piece of pipe weighing about 200 lb . felt a twinge in groin area . reported incident the next day . prescription medication after doctor's visit .
employee's hand became pinched between a manlift basket and a crusher flywheel .
employee was climbing through an access door onto an alimak climber when the door came down on his hand . the falling door broke the bone in the tip of his right middle finger and caused a laceration to the same which required sutures .
employee noticed inflammation on the right eye . resulting in treatment with a prescription ointment .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at spad number 4317 on the 001 section between the number 3 and number 4 entries . the fall occurred approximately   2400 ' from active face . this area was developed approximately   10/15/09 . fall measured 30' long x 20' wide x 5 ' high. ventilation and passage of person was not affected . area will be rehabilitated   . state and federal agencies were notified immediately .
employee was changing tire thumb attachment on jd 790 excavator . he was hammering the pin through that would secure it in place . the two parts were not completely aligned and the impact with the back end of   the axe head resulted in stress to the muscles of the abdomen .
deckhand employee was working on the dock when the dock winch barge haul cable broke . the cable struck the employee in the back knocking him to the ground , he sustained a cut on the nose and puncher to the chin .
employee was lowering a slider bed that was vertical on a dolly . while lowering employee felt a pop in employee's left arm . employee found out 06/13/2018 that employee needed surgery to repair torn tendon . surgery was 06/15/2018 . employee will be on restricted duty until released from doctor .
employee was struck on the back by a rock brow that broke out from around roof bolts ( 10-12 '' thick , 18-48 '' wide and 90-96 '' long ) . employee sustained fractures to left ribs , lower back and neck . accident occurred on the mobile mining unit 003-0 section .
employee was helping left side bolter on cm make up bolts when a rock ( 3'9 '' long , 2 ' wide , 10 '' thick ) struck him in the head , neck , right shoulder and forearm , and left hand causing two fractured fingers , several lacerations to the fingers , and severed the tip of his left thumb . the rock fell out between straps . the roof support was installed according to plan .
employee was unloading , stacking , cutting and tapering drill steel , felt pain in lower back , groin . employee saw doctor 8/10/01 on 3/22/02 employee underwent surgical repair of right inguinal hernia . returned to light duty   4/8/02 and full duty 5/6/02
the mine received notification on february 17 , 2016 that this former employee was granted a .73 % award for permanent impairment from noise-induced hearing loss . the incident was caused by the employee's failure to wear the appropriate personal protective equipment - hearing protection throughout career .
a roof fall occurred in the intersection in the number 3 entry , 600 ' outby the number   2 section at spad # 391. fall was ~5' thick , 19 ' wide and 19 ' long . no persons or equipment were involved nor were travelways   or airways affected . the area was cribbed off .
employee reported on 10/15/01 that he had injured himself on 9/13 by using a rope and pulley to lift apiece of metal to the top of the raw feed bins . according to him , the hand over hand action caused   pain in his right shoulder . on november 12 he brought in a slip from his treating physician which stated that he had limited overhead lift/push/pull of 10 lb .
while descending a fixed ladder , wasps from a nearby nest flew at employee . he quickened his pace and possibly missed a rung of the ladder , then fell to the ground .
a employee and coworker were cleaning rock dust form under a motor base of a inclined finish screen . the 2 men were on a catwalk that collapsed and dropped them 10 ' to a conveyor which they bounced off of and fell another 7 ' to plant grade . employee was released .
employee felt lower back and hip pain while operating the loader in the wash plant yard ( bouncing in seat ) . he visited a doctor who felt that the condition was due to body alignment verses a disc   problem . on 2/2/04 the employee was treated for a bulging disc by another doctor . the employee required surgery and the injury is now being considered work-related .
location/section-mains , number 6 entry at the face . employee bent over to remove a rock off of the scoop charging cable . he injured his lower back .
employee was descending ladder of r-35 truck . the rungs of ladder were wet and employee's foot slipped of one rung .
employee was operating mantrip . as he started under the belt on e-mains track - the trip struck the guard and dislodged it . he was caught by the guard and twisted around in the operations compartment   . he developed lower back pain . no days were lost medical treatment only .
about 30 break , rock fell from top and struck employee on head and right forearm .
employee was using an overhead hoist to turn over a screen deck frame . the rod holding eye broke on the screen frame , dropping the frame on the employee's left foot behind the steel toe area .
employee was getting down into wash box . foot was on a step inside the wash box and left arm resting on top of wash box overflow . as employee stepped on down , employee drug arm down , and a sharp piece of metal on the edge of the box lacerated the underside of forearm . required sutures .
employee was in process of closing the door of a dk45 drill tech highwall drill , when closing door employee caught left thumb against door jam and hinged area .
fall occurred in the number 3 entry on the number   2 section which measured 25 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' and was located on the no 3 southwest mains one break inby survey station 2292 .
employee was bolting in the number 6 entry . he lowered the drill head and the drill steel fell out of hole . employee twisted around to grab it and felt intense pain in both knees . he was transported and admitted to raleigh general hospital due to pain and swelling .
employee was crossing over the ref belt on a catwalk to get to the classifying sump on b side . while employee was traveling over employee's hard hat came into contact with the discharge pipe of the spiral ref screen causing employee to chip a tooth .
employee was rehabilitate bolting an area with screen wire installed on the back . a small piece of rock fell through the 4 '' x 4 '' opening and bounced off of the jackleg drill muffler , striking his face , causing a laceration on the bridge of his nose which required sutures .
employee was replacing the rear suspension cylinder on a cat 793 truck . as he was using a sledge hammer to drive the top strut pin from its bore he felt a pain in his right wrist . he did not report the incident at that time . on 9/22/06 , as he was loosening/tightening the wear plate retaining bolts on a 24m motor grader , using a 3/4 '' impact wrench , he again experienced pain in wrist .
employee was standing on catwalk holding onto rope that we use to put hoist cable on to keep from having to walk the boom , when the rope was pulled by another employee . this twisted employee around and pulled a muscle in employee's back .
the number 5 rock came from the shot in big pieces . we were building a ramp with this material without any problems . it started to rain making the boulders slippery . employee climbed his front tire up on a boulder and it slipped off the other side bringing the truck down fast and hard , jarring and rocking him suddenly . this motion is what is suspected to have caused the cervical radiculopathy .
employee was using a hammer hitting a conveyer shaft and hit left index finger against a piece of metal . employee received 3 sutures to left index finger . no lost time .
employee was removing a 3.5 '' piece of shaft used as a safety block in the crusher when the shaft slipped from the far side of the crusher pinching the employee's right thumb against the frame of the crusher resulted in lacerations and a chipped bone . medical only no lost time .
the roads were wet and slippery , employee was trying to pass a coal truck , lost control of his s10 and went to into a slump hole around marker number 22. it skinned his cheek , put a laceration in his knee requiring 5 stitches , and a contusion .
3 right - 5 south longwall recovery face at 28 shield . 28 shield was about to be pulled off face . man saw day shift employees coming in to relieve them and started to leave .   f   bar chain broke hitting him on left thigh .
employee was asked to stockpile rock at stockpile area . he was backing up across pad and struck an f-250 in front left corner . the f-250 was parked with nobody in it at time of accident . at this time i was notified and went to the scene of the accident . employee was sent for a drug screen at 10am , the very next morning ( no personal injuries occurred from this accident )
the employee attempted to place a guard back over a moving conveyor ; although , policies in place at the plant require the conveyor to be stopped . the guard bumped into the moving conveyor and bounced up into the employee's chin . his chin was lacerated , requiring several stitches .
employee was shoveling spilled material over the course of three days . employee complained of soreness and condition worsened in his left shoulder . employee returned to work . soreness persisted and employee began leave   on march 5 , 2002 .
repairing belt , belt clamp slipped hit employee in left forearm . returned to work 4-9-00. re-evaluated 4-10-00 then 4-14-00 , missed 4-14-00 still no damage found .
employee was involved with putting a splice in belt 89-806 ; the temperature in the tube was hot and the dust was bad and caused burns to his legs around the top of his boots and the top part of his   legs .
three employees were moving parking logs around the yard . they had new chain ( 15 ft ) tied to the bucket . the chain lost its slack on one side of the bucket , so employee bent down to get the right   amount of slack in the chain . when he stood up is when he felt a pop in his back .
employee had been cutting a pipe with a bandsaw so it would fit in the dumpster . a piece of pipe was on the rack where it had been cut off and employee said when he walked by the pipe it rolled and fell off poking his arm on the way down .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by mine examiner in old works . fall measured 20 ' wide x 50 ' long x 4 ' high . fall located between spad number 4695 and spad number 4631 .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis claim for employee on 10/28/2013 .
employee said he climbed down a ladder and jumped off the bottom step , which is 14 '' to the ground , but another employee ( who does not want to be identified ) seen him jump from the top of the platform to the ground , which is 6 ' .
on 10/24/17 , employee was walking into a tunnel and tripped over a conveyor belt laying on the ground . employee attempted to catch self by bracing self to the wall with left hand . employee received first aid treatment . employee continued to experience pain and discomfort and decided to seek medical attention on 11/13/17 - diagnosed with a strained left shoulder and on restricted duty .
employee has been awarded an occupational hearing loss claim .
employee was lifting a 5 gal bucket with broken con twisted and pulled back muscles . employee was off ( normal off-time ) the next two days . employee called in on the 31st and said he was going to the doctor the doctor prescribed physical therapy .
employee was helping move a piece of rock off of the continuous miner one end of rock slid sideways , pinching hand and arm against roof .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on e-9a mains in the number   3 entry inby spad 9729. the fall measured 5 ' high , 18 ' wide , 8 ' long .
employee alleges his right knee locked up while crossing a belt crosswalk . note : he worked until 080505 , then started missing due to alleged injury
while moving trailing cable and j-boxes , employee strained right shoulder . the technician was using a j hook to assist in moving the cable .
employee was loading a tanker truck from silo . had opened the hatches using fall protection , then came down to load truck . after truck was loaded , employee filled out the paperwork and gave it to driver . as usual , employee then climbed back up the truck to close the hatches . employee turned to tie off using fall protection , but truck started driving away . employee grabbed an i beam to hang on to .
employee ( temporary employee ) was roof bolting when a piece of roof rock approximately 1 ft   x 1 ft   x 1-4 in   fell and struck him on the right hand . he received a laceration and a fracture to his right ring finger . 4 sutures to close laceration and finger splinted .
at approximately 7:11 pm the silver shaft hoistman was in the process of skipping muck when the hoist tripped out and could not be reset . the electrical department was notified and it was diagnosed that there was a faulty hc inverter .
walking to river pump stepping over pvc pipe , foot slipped on pipe , twisting left knee .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the west mains section ( mobile mining unit 074 ) beltline ; the fall is ats urvey station 5+68 entry # 5. fall will affect production for several shifts . fall is approximately   7 ' higher than mine roof , 18'-35 ' wide and 20 ' long . area is dangered off and recorded in examiners book .
upon an investigation the employee , and miner operator were mining the first top left lift in pillar # 182. employee heard a pillar bump and saw a piece of rock ( slip ) falling at and near where he was positioned   . he raised his left arm up toward his face and moved his body position to avoid contact . his left elbow was struck the the rock causing a cut that required sutures .
rib roll/roof fall combination on south b section number 5 entry 30 ' inby station 1266. poor geology . fell above anchorage .
employee was doing clean-up and while moving a floor stand , he felt pain in lower stomach . employee went to doctor on 9-18-02 , when he was diagnosed with a navel hernia .
the lid on the vertical shaft impactor was opened at the end of the shift to do maintenance . it was left open overnight to finish the next day . when they started changing lid liners , they didn't know the hydraulic pressure had bled off but the lid was stuck in the raised position . employee stood on the lid and it dropped approximately 2 ft causing him to loose balance and fall off . he was not wearing fall protection .
employee was looking through screens at the maintenance pole shed . employee stepped down approximately   6 inches and felt sudden extreme pain in lower back .
on 5-1-09 employee was bolting top when a piece of rock fell and hit him on the left arm mid way between the wrist and elbow . x-rays at buchanan hospital showed negative . on 5-15-09 an mri was conducted and a fracture was observed . ( the orthopedic doctor said that it was not broken - it was only a bone bruise by miscellaneous mail 6/2/09 number 6 )
while demonstrating to customers employee standard procedure for changing a scraper blade . a pry bar being used slipped mashing factory representative's right thumb between pry bar and hand rail .
employee states that he was holding brake shoe trying to align bolt holes and was struck on finger with hammer being used by another person .
employee was trying to lift a beam off of another employee that was was working for a subcontractor .
a roof fall measuring 50' x 20' x 9 ' occurred on the 14 right panel , 2 cross-cuts outby the face near spad 1816 .
employee pinched finger while installing filter leaves requiring sutures .
the employee was shoveling salt at the bottom of the 14 ' shaft as she twisted to throw the salt out of the shove , she felt a pain in her lower left side . she has continued to work at her regular occupation   , but has been scheduled for therapy the week of 10-8 and 10-15 , 3 times a week .
operating johnson mantrip when steering knob struck back of hand
employee has worked for ep minerals for 20 years , and through an annual chest x-ray , likely signs of silicotic nodules were detected .
while operating a shuttle car , employee ran over a block of coal which bounced him into the canopy , causing pain in his left arm and down left leg .
employee just stepped through an approximate 3 ' x 3 ' mandoor at xc22 , the air caught the door and slammed it shut abruptly . employee was holding onto the door handle with his right hand , as the door slammed shut , he pulled his hand away quickly and his index finger was struck by the door or he struck his hand on the door frame .
employee was welding a section of pipe and removed his welding hood and safety glasses to inspect his work as he says they were fogged up . some welding slag had dripped onto the concrete below the weld and the cement heated and popped . some debris flew into his eye . he was treated onsite with eyewash and sent to local treatment center the next day . doctor's report stated superficial burn and abrasion
employee was walking up a sloped pond embankment and felt a pop and burning sensation in the calf of his right leg . normal work activities were ongoing and employee was not running and did not trip or slip . employee was scheduled for a ct scan which diagnosed a tear in a gastrocnemius muscle of the calf . physical therapy/healing time was ordered and employee could not return to work for 4-6 weeks .
employee was inspecting the pads and roller on a feeder . he grabbed a wheel to slide it out and felt a burning in his shoulder .
rock fall in a panel ( spad 10+50 number 2 entry ) off holt road submain . fall size in number 2 entry 60 ft by 18 ft by unknown height and across cut 2- right for 50 ft by 18 ft by unknown height . this is an l shape fall . section moved from this area approximately   2 weeks ago and producing in b panel approx . 1700 ft away from fall area .
unintentional roof fall occurred in number 5 entry 1 break inby spad # 15127. measurement : 20 ' ( long ) x 20 ' ( wide ) x 6 ' to 8 ' ( thick ) .
while operating an eimco miner , he turned to look back at load on ram car . his back popped and began to hurt and his left side started going numb .
employee was climbing down a ladder on an it28 ( loader ) and strained his right ankle .
at around 9:30 pm , a phone call was made to inform ohio american energy that a small fire could be seen at the prep plant . the mine superintendent and safety director then drove to the prep plant . upon arrival , a small fire ( approximately 6 feet x 6 feet ) could be seen burning on the coal stockpile . a d11 dozer was utilized to spread out the coal and quickly put out the fire .
employee was unloading an empty acetylene tank from his service truck and felt a sharp burning pain in his right lower abdomen .
employee leaned over to put battery on dolly and twisted lower back . employee did not become a restricted until 7-9-03 .
employee has carpal tunnel and had surgery this day .
employee work in the storeroom , which entails a lot of computer work . employee has been experiencing pain in right arm .
employee's glove got caught in cable while pulling cable through a conduit using a tugger . causing fracture of right 5th metacarpal ( boxer fracture )
employee was preparing to reinforce rock that had already been bolted when the rock cracked , striking employee on the foot .
employee was installing a roofbolt into the roof , lifting with his right arm when he felt pain in his lower back .
the day shift roof bolter operator was drilling a test hole in the intersection between number   6 and number   7 entries near spad number 1105 when drill steel struck his left thumb .
repairs were being made to the right front wheel . the wheel cover dropped off and rolled on the ground towards injured employee . as the cover rolled between his legs he tried to keep it from hitting him . in doing so his finger on right hand got caught in the cover and broke his finger .
employee was getting out of his tractor , said when he started to twist his body around he felt pain in his back .
control room received high carbon monoxide alarm and operator was called out to assess . operator utilized a gas meter to assess and it triggered high carbon monoxide levels . coal barn was assessed . coal barn showed signs of smoke . fire dept was called , they provided services and fire was extinguished . on-site personnel monitored area . investigation shows a damaged electrical cord on the c1 conveyor .
a fall of the roof occurred on the number 2 unit , number 6 entry cross-cut number 29 inby spad # 1261. approximately 70' long , 17' wide , 7' thick in a 4 way intersection bolted with point anchor 6 ' bolts not to be cleaned up at this time   did not affect passage of men or ventilation .
employee was installing a light fixture . he misstepped and grabbed the light fixture , cutting his right hand on the sheet metal frame . stitches required and released to full duty .
employee received a lime in the eye and inhalation injury . the employee was working on a bearing change when the mill bin located above him over flowed and spilled material on top of him . employee eyes were washed out and sent to the emergency department for evaluation .
he was shoveling belt and while attempting to throw the material up to the belt from the bottom , he felt sharp pains in his lower back . he stoped work and was taken outside where he transported   himself to the hospital ; he hasn't returned .
number 2 hoist down ( electrical switch ) no danger to employees . mine safety and health administration notified via phone at 1:07pm 6/14/2008 .
a fall of the mine roof was discovered at 53 break number 1 west intake in the # entry . the fall does not a affect travel or ventilation the fall measured approximately   20 ' wide x 20 ' long x 6 ' thick .
the employee was on top of the tailgate drive cleaning off rocks . he started to get down , reached for a hose to hold on to , his toe hung up causing him to lose his balance miss the hose , falling head first into the pontoon on the shield . the tailgate drive is about 4 feet off the ground . he required 8 stitches above his right eye and fractured the tip of his left thumb .
the number 8 elevator was inspected by schindler , mine safety and health administration and mine safety and health administration technical support . although the top and bottom door switches checked good , it was decided to replace both switches . the elevator was taken out of service for over a period of 30 min . all persons underground were notified and the escapeways were rerouted . the switches were changed and elevator was back in service .
truck driver attempted to dump trailer on uneven surface . trailer overturned .
employee had completed installing an alternator belt on a cat 24h motor grader and was making final checks when a rock rolled off a nearby spoils pile and struck him int he legs . his left leg was fractured   and his right leg sustained a 3 inch laceration .
employee was helping another employee move a scrap piece of steel out of the path of a manlift . the piece of steel shifted and pinched employee's middle index finger causing a very minor fracture to right   middle   fingertip . employee missed work from 7-21 to 8-2 .
employee was using a knocker wrench to tighten the bolts on number 1 sand tailings . when he hit the knocker wrench with a sledge hammer , the wrench came off and hit him in the mouth .
worker was grinding a piece of metal to make room for another piece to fit when a piece of metal or grinding material entered under the face shield . ( bounced off chest ) .
employee disconnected a hydraulic hose while under pressure striking his right forearm , causing 2 1/2 '' lacerations .
throughout the course of employee's shift , he was inadvertently exposed to welding and cutting processes that were taking place around him . this exposure resulted in welding flash in both eyes . he was treated the following day .
employee was hitting belt structure with a hammer and a piece of metal hit him in the right eye .
the employee sought medical treatment for `` trigger finger issues '' . after seeking a second opinion , he was diagnosed with bilateral carper tunnel syndrome . he will be undergoing treatment for this   condition .
the employee was manually loading 8 '' concrete block into a scoop bucket . as he lifted a block and turned to stack it he felt pain in his lower back .
employee stated that he stepped over a beam approximately 4 '' high from walking level and as he put his weight on his right foot , his ankle turned causing him to lose his balance and fall on concrete floor . employee stated his ankle hurt . at first employee thought is was an ankle sprain . employee returned to wk on 2/15/01 but had to return to doctor on 2/16/01 .
employee fell from front bumper of a 777 coal truck
while moving electric shovel cable , employee was struck by the cable in the left ankle . employee was watching the cable and the pickup in front of employee when a section of cable contacted the employee from the side resulting in a fracture to the left ankle which required surgery to repair .
the employee was on a conveyer belt . harness was on . the employee failed to follow lockout tagout procedures . the belt was started and the employee jumped from the belt causing a hairline fracture to the right ankle . employee is currently on light duty .
employee was using a ratchet with a 12 '' extension to remove a bolt from a converter on a loader . he exerted force to try and break the bolt loose . when it came free , the employee's finger struck the end of a screw clamp on a hose .
employee bent down to pick up a tool that had fallen off of the work bench and pulled something in his back . he went to the doctor on 2/22/01 and was prescribed therapy .
employee was using a chain saw to cut a tree approximately 18-20 '' in diameter . when the tree fell , a grapevine that was unseen in the top of the tree pulled a dead tree approximately 6-8 '' in diameter down and struck employee , knocking him to the ground . when employee hit the ground , he fell on a rock that caused a laceration over right eye , requiring 7 stitches .
employee was working changing the catenary shaft on unit 1 grate . there was a magnetic bas light on the wall . as work was progressing the light fell , swung by the cord and struck employee in the face .
employee was unloading coal in high wind conditions when employee received coal dust in left eye .
employee stated that while helping remove the atra jack from the miner , he felt pain in his groin . ( employee did not start missing work until 8/21/04 . )
employee was positioning his roof bolter to install bolts in the intersection of the number 2 entry . a section of rib material measuring approximately 4 ' x 3 ' fell out of the corner of the intersection and   struck him from behind , causing him to strike his face and head on the bolter as he fell to the ground .
this roof fall was discovered in the 3a submain number 2 entry cross-cut 11 and 12 .
on tuesday 2/14 around 7:10 am employee was rolling up a 24 inch wide conveyor belt when employee slipped and fell , injuring lower back . this incident was not reported until wednesday 2/15 by text messaging supervisor at 2:27 am . supervisor called and informed me about the incident .
employee has had two incidents of a stomach muscle strain from shoveling . he needs a small surgical repair done to this herniated muscle .
fall happened on 160 break on north mains section one break outby spad # 2090. fall was 1500 ' from the face , approximately   30' long , 20' wide , 6 ' to 8 ' thick . bolted with 4 ' fully grouted bolts and 6 ' torque tension bolts . no one was injured and no air ways were affected .
employee was lifting a rock out of the jaw and pulled a muscle in his groin .
employee was attempting to unplug preheater tower using a cardox system . system discharged prematurely burning employee on the chest , neck , and arms . he sustained 1st degree burns to the majority of the affected area and 6 % was 2nd degree burns .
was attempting to disconnect a positive battery lead from batteries of locomotive . he was using a pair of channel locks and they got against the battery case causing arc . he suffered a burn on his right hand and 2 fingers of his right   hand .
employee was driving the loader on 12-22-03 for eight hours each day . he felt a sharp pain on his right side under his rib cage and down his front right leg . employee went to the emergency room on 12-23-0 3 .
the employee was pushing an electrical motor off of an elevated platform . the employee was squatted down pushing the motor through an accessway in the handrails below a safety chain . it appears that when the motor rolled off it caught on the employee's gloves or himself and pulled him off the platform . he fell approximately 15 ft to the ground .
employee was preparing to mount a cutting edge on a front end loader . the cutting edges were shipped on a palet stacked three high . employee was sliding the top cutting edge off of the stack . his finger was caught between the two cutting edges . the cutting edges weigh approximately   350 lbs . apiece . employee sustained a cut that required stitched and a broken finger . both were to the same finger .
employee was tearing down flypads in the number 7 entry 50' outby spad number 10757 to move to a new location as he was pulling on the flypads , the flyboard broke allowing a loose piece of drawrock that was above the flyboard to fall onto the ground hitting him on the left ankle resulting in a chipped bone .
employee was located on the off side of the belt take-up getting ready to pull belt slack in when a piece of coal rib broke loose and fell out striking him on the right ankle and foot . the material measured   5 ' x 14 '' x 18 '' .
roof fall occurred in the 4b recovery area at the 4 + 03 spad location . the fall affected the following cross cuts 1 to 2 , 2 to 3 , and 3 to 4 .
the number   1 phase on the east motor of the nordberg hoist went bad . maintenance had to braze the bus bar to get it back in working condition . tested and returned to working condition the following day 2nd shift .
slipped and fell on metal decking on wash plant .
two employees were lifting a small piece of conveyor belt . after the lift employee said he felt a pain in his back . he waited till 10-30-06 to report the injury . he was taken to hospital and put on restricted duty - sprained ligament .
a roof fall occurred in the supply road of the 2nd main west - old , number 1 unit , no injuries or disruptions to ventilation . the fall was approximately 82 ' long , 18 wide , 8 ' high . the fall was discovered at approximately 12 : pm at xc79 spad 53 + 46 .
employee was assisting washing off cathodes in the tankhouse .
employee stated that he was walking back toward the miner after conducting an air reading when he slipped on a rock and fell into the gear case of the miner . he was treated at mar hospital for a laceration to the forehead requiring 7 stitches . employee returned to work on the next shift at full duty .
an unplanned roof fall occurred outby the face of number 6 entry on section 2 , just inby survey spad # 21009. the fall measured approximately : 45 to 50 ft in length , 16 ft width , and 6 to 8 ft in height .
employee was underneath 50 ton haul truck changing transmission filters . upon exiting he complained of pain in right knee . employee did not requested medical attention until 12/9/05 and return to work with no lost time . continued with doctor follow-ups . doctor has no requested physical therapy treatments beginning 1/4/06 .
bagging hydrated lime bag blew off spout after bag clamp did not engage spraying employee with lime and resulting of some lime into eyes . employee had on all personal protective equipment . eyes were flushed out and employee was taken to berkshire occupational health .
while working on fletcher roof bolter that was parked in the enter section , a piece of draw rock fell between the roof bolts striking employee on his head and shoulder
employee was operating shuttle car . car ran over a hole in roadway and bounced employee into car canopy and against frame .
employee was working moving oxygen bottles he was instructed to get help unloading the bottles . apparently he lifted bottles himself
had rock fall one break inby spad number 1334 in number 2 entry on 004 section . fall approximately 6-10 ' thick x 40 ' long x 18 ' wide . area was bolted with 6 ' resin bolts and 12 ' rope bolt over 14 ' - 16 ' . area cribbed off on all sides with crib block . fall was inspected by mine safety and health administration inspectors on 6/13/07 .
employee was using loader to scrape mud off road . the loader bucket caught on a hidden rock and threw the operator into the windshield .
working on plant on a very windy day , employee thought by day's end that dust had blown into his eyes . according to doctor he had minor ultraviolet burns to eyes and was told to wear patches at night . he did not miss any time . he was helping welder on plant but was not doing the welding . he was wearing eye protection .
employee was driving getman scaler number 1 out of upper dolomite area of mine number 4 , ran over rock or edge of roadway , causing cab to rock upwards quickly . employee hit top of forehead on light attached to cab frame . cut to forehead requiring 6 stitches . employee was wearing hardhat and seat belt at the time of the accident .
employee was walking past the southwest side of feed silo number 2 to take a routine boiler water sample when he slipped and fell . employee was taken for x-rays where it was determined that he had single broken rib on the left side .
on friday , july 30 , 2004 , a roof fall was discovered at the bottom of the slope at a preexisting overcast on the main line . the fall measured 4 ' wide x 8 ' long x 15 ' high . the fall has been inspected by mine safety and health administration inspector .
employee was backing up a scoop and hit his head on a low spot in roof . he has pulled muscles in neck .
employee was inside the cement kiln shroud cleaning the mid-kiln area during shutdown . he was attached to a rope and he lost his footing as he climbed out of the shroud at break . as he fell @ 4 feet , he tried to catch himself and struck his left wrist on the metal shroud and bent his wrist backward . he did not see doctor until 12/2/03 and was put on restricted duty until he saw specialist
employee was repairing an articulated dump truck . the hood fell , striking his leg above the knee .
employee and two coworkers were in the process of lowering a water line pipe to the ground . employee was using a drill steel to release the pipe from the chain when an s hook failed , letting the pipe fall . the drill steel was knocked out of employee's hand and it whipped around and struck employee on the forehead .
repairs to dust collector - dust entered eyes , sent to eye doctors left eye lid swollen and red .
injured was walking by pc when he tripped over the 1 1/2 '' water line to the cm . when he fell he put his arms out to broke his fall when he came down he felt pain in his wrist .
roof fall ( 7000-1-008-04 ) : main south seals , between number 1 and number 2 seals . dimensions : height : 6.5 ' , width : 19 ' , length : 60 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in roof . roof support : 6' conventional bolts .
employee picked up a draw head for a railroad car narrow gauge and strained his back and shoulder he continued   to work at his reg job title ( train engineer and brakeman ) and continues doing so to this day . he hasn't lost any time . this employee also has extreme problems with diabetes . an mri has reveled a possible bulge from a disc . the plan is to attach this problem with steroids and surgery is possible
a roof fall was discovered at spad 310 in the number 3 entry at 9:55 pm during a pre-shift examination . the fall was approximately   20 feet long x 16 feet wide x 8 feet high . the fall did not affect miners , ventilation nor equipment .
4000-259 i drift . employee was cutting his haul back cable on slusher bucket 8 ' from face , pulled cable tight on top of bucket to get it into cutter on top of bucket . held cutter with left hand and hit cable cutter with sledge hammer in right hand . after hitting the cutter 5-6 times , missed cable cutter , hitting his left hand smashing left ringer finger . 3 sutures .
employee moving track hoe in quarry . parked hoe . getting out , slipped off track . fell on right side .
employee was using an impact wrench to loosen bolts when he felt something in his right eye medical treatment was sought and he was treated for foreign body he was placed on 1 day restricted duty
hoist down 12:30 pm . the grass rope came through cross head . cross head dropped onto chairs , damaging ears of cross head . the damaged cross head was replaced and extraneous fiber rope had been removed from shaft . hoist restarted 9:30 am on 4/5/00 .
employee was attempting to mount the 777d rock truck . he placed his lunch box on the bumper , then climbed to the bumper . when he tried to place his lunch box on the catwalk . he dropped his bucket   . while attempting to catch the lunch box , he slipped and fell to the ground .
intersection at spad number 38 fell , 6 ' high 16 ' wide and 25 ' long , per map attached .
employee strained his shoulder while placing rails on a retaining wall . employee did not seek medical attention until 2 february 2004 and began working restricted duty on 3 february 2004 .
employee was exiting finish mill # 1. as he stepped down onto platform he twisted his knee . employee who is a supervisor went to company doctor who released him for work , follow up showed torn medial meniscus in right knee . employee had surgery on 11/02/2006 making this a reportable lost time accident
employee was standing on the marland c-conn gearbox . he was handing another employee a hammer when he lost his footing and fell about 49 inches , landing on the heel of his left foot . he sustained a fracture to his left heel bone .
employee was attempting to unstop the clean coal sampler . he did not disconnect the power to the secondary cutter on the sampler . his forehead came in contact with the sweep arm causing a laceration that required stitches .
climbing up the ladder to cab on the terex t-40 haul truck , missed a step while climbing and slid down the ladder to the ground . was about 1-2 feet up when he slid down the ladder .
roof fall found outby 2 right panel in the number 9 entry of the mains . fall in the intersection between spad nos . 4219 and 4220. fall is approximately 15' wide , 20' long and 7' thick . no injuries . had been cribbed   off and made safe .
employee was lifting belts structure and hurt lower back .
the man walked between 2 scoops a coworker moved the 1 scoop and pinched the employee's right leg between the moving one and the stationary one
striking tooth retainer with a hammer to secure tooth on 988b loader bucket . a metal sliver broke off of tooth striking him in lower left front of neck . required minor first aid to stop bleeding . he finished shift and went to doctor , x-ray shows metal embedded in muscle . doctor chose to not remove
injured was riding in the rear facing seat of a diesel mantrip . mantrip went around a switch and derailed . when the mantrip derailed and struck the rib , the injured's momentum drove his left kidney area into the self-contained self-rescuer . injured suffered a bruised kidney , ribs and back , mantrip was being operated at an excessive speed .
unintentional roof fall 2nd main east return number 10 entry 63 cross-cut 25' long x 20' wide x 8 ' high . 6 ' and 8 ' tr bolts and props . it will be cleaned up .
employee was adjusting rolls on crusher unit with a cat bar . the cat bar slipped causing employee to hit his elbow on iron resulting in injury .
while working on a komatsu 475 bulldozer to remove rock that was wedged between blade and front structure , employee was putting up his 9000 lb crane and snatch block , slipped on a rock and fell with snatch block and hurt his lower back .
injured was assisting in hanging a miner cable . employee felt pain and a pop in right shoulder .
original incident occurred on 8/14/2012 , when employee bumped head on a filter trough and was treated for first aid , as well as a personal preexisting condition . on 3/18/2013 , the site medical and ehs were notified that surgery had been performed on 3/6/2013 and was being covered by workers compensation .
a fall of the roof occurred on number 4 unit , 6th northeast panel number 2 entry at spad number 38550 . 80 ' outby the face in the last open cross-cut . no personal equipment or ventilation were affected . the fall was 70' long , 19' wide and 6' thick .
the man was preparing to drill bolt hole in last row of bolts . when he pushed the drill steel against the roof a piece of rock 2 '' thick 18 '' x 18 '' broke loose and fell striking his left hand which   cut his middle , ring and pinky finger .
employee lacerated the little finger on right hand while attempting to pry open a sliding gate on a coal chute with a bar . hand contacted an electrical bracket , cutting finger . the wound required 4 sutures to close - the employee returned to full duty with no restrictions .
bent over to pick up 50 lb bags of material when he felt sharp pain in lower back . employee explained that he did roll the bag to him , bent his knees to pick up up bag and kept bag close to his   body as he was straightening his knees he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee was profiling the 1 south belt structure using a chain hoist that was hooked into the chain that the belt was hanging from . the employee was standing on the belt which was 60 '' off the bottom , when the chain hoist came loose , causing the employee to lose his balance and fall from the belt to the mine floor .
injured had descended the steps of the haul truck , turned and wedding ring caught on step grading causing flesh to be torn under ring .
employee just stepped up onto a tractor and felt something pop in his right knee . this was originally considered first aid , but after the knee continued to bother him he went in for a follow-up . it was decided to scope the knee and the doctor found and repaired a torn meniscus on 4/25/06 .
employee was diagnosed with a bilateral sensorineural hearing loss .
employee was carrying a ladder across the parking area when he slipped on the ice , causing him to fall and twist his ankle . he went to have surgery on his ankle 4-11-07 , this is the date lost time will start .
employee was laying on his right side in an awkward position with his arms extended out , hand tightening electrical pipe conduit together . he began experiencing pain and discomfort in his right   upper back and shoulder .
employee was moving steel and tossed a piece . the beam hit some grating and bounced back , landing on his foot it broke 2 toes and lacerated the top of his foot .
fall approximately   22' long x 18' wide x 6' high . no injuries , no equipment involved , no blockage of ventilation or escapeway . will not be cleaned up - breakered off and dangered . marked on map .
employee slipped on walk area near the down hill belt tail piece and sprained his ankle .
employee had been working on the 16g cat grader , when he was finished and was climbing down the ladder he slipped off of the steps and landed on his left shoulder .
job was rained out . employee was cleaning up site to leave when he stepped on 3/4 '' conduit and fell . his ( right ) elbow struck concrete foundation jamming his ( right ) shoulder . employee was taken off work by doctor on 8/7/06 and has not returned .
employee was putting up a roof bolt when employee mashed employee's right pinkie ( little ) finger between a roof bolt and pot of the roof bolter . on 08/11/2017 employee worked 5.5 hours then left to go to the doctor for a follow-up on employee's finger , at which time the doctor took employee off work due to a minimal distal fracture on the tip of employee's right little finger . employee began missing work as of 08/12/2017 .
a fall of the roof occurred on number 4 unit , number 2 entry , 60 feet outby spad number 30189 , 180 feet outby the dumping point , 3rd mb panel , no ventilation , equipment or personnel were affected . the fall was 100 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' .
employee began missing work from an injury that occurred on 1/24/2008 . he was rockdust and felt pain in lower back .
while using a utility knife to cut a zip tie off an extension cord , the knife slipped and cut the employee's left index finger . he received 5 stitches and was released to regular duty .
employee was bolting , when a small rock fell off the rib . he stepped back and tripped on another rock and fell . he strained the left side of his back he returned in a restricted capacity
employee sprained left shoulder while pushing material down chute . employee was utilizing a pry bar to free plugged material in stone chute . employee completed his shift , shoulder felt worse at home so he went to doctor employee reported to work the next day .
employee fell from back of pickup onto brick which employee was unloading . landed on forearm/elbow jamming shoulder .
a roof fall occurred between number 2 + number 3 entry of the 2nd mine @ survey station 20 + 30. the fall measured 45 ' long x 18 ' wide x 10 ' thick . the area had been supported with 6 ' fully grouted resin bolts and 9 ' double locks . all approaches have been timbered
employee stated he was setting timbers on the pillar section , piece of rock fell , striking him on leg . went to doctor 11-10-02 , went back next day . started losing time on 11-25-02 .
injured employee was reaching to remove a feeder flight that was lying between a portapower and slope belt brake . another employee released the pressure on the portapower causing the feeder flight to fall , strike the injured employee on his right hand and left foot , resulting in fractures to his hand and foot .
employee was pushing rocks forward on the conveyor belt leading to the guillotine . as he pushed , one of the rocks twisted and fell off the conveyor onto his foot . he was wearing his foot guard .
while putting up tins on the roof to direct water drippers . came in contact with water that had pebble lime quicklime in it must have not had my rain pants taped tight enough to boots . water leaked   in causing burns .
10/15/2015- employee reported a bruised tail bone to safety . said he did it on 10/07/2015 . while leaning on one knee on the ground , employee was torquing bolts on a steel block . employees fell back onto another steel block , bruising tail bone . he compared the initial injury to hitting his funny bone so he didn't report it . had x-rays done to very it is bruised only .
employee was dismounting from dozer and slipped on the wet ground and heard a popping noise in right knee . employee continued to work with no restrictions . surgery was scheduled for a torn meniscus which was repaired on 09/21/18 .
employee was attempting to load supplies onto a roof bolter when he picked up pin board he strained his back .
2 employees were welding at same time working on reclaim hopper . apparently employee was too close and received   flash burns to both eyes . employee was taken to salem er and prescribed eye drops and an anti inflammatory prescription .
employee was conducting shelby tube sampling on tailings using hydraulic ram set . while taping cap to sample tube , the sampler slipped from chucks lacerating and fracturing the tip of the right number 4 finger . full release , no days lost . employee is from canada and has valid tn-1 status . ( no social security number )
employee was hanging miner cable with section boss when he stepped in a low spot in the bottom causing him to twist his left knee .
employee was working on a screw conveyor , using a 3 ' pry bar , when he pulled back on the pry bar it came loose and struck him in the mouth , resulting in sutured lip .
while retrieving a sample ground silica from the process entered the employee's eyes . safety glasses and all other personal protective equipment was being worn . eyes were flushed and no further injury noted . a prescription medication was given to prevent infection .
on august 6 , 2007 at 2:50 am a bounce/outburst occurred at the crandall canyon mine . it affected the current mining location in the south barrier of west mains extending outby to approximately   cross-cut 119. the outburst affected all 4 entries and rescue operations were begun immediately . rescue operations to reach the miners were unsuccessful .
employee was pulling guzzler hose around drag chain when the hose sucked up a lot of material causing the hose to ship and smash his wrist against drag chain cover .
another employee was driving a kawasaki k2110-ii loader and was backing up when injured employee drove his s10 pickup behind the loader . the impact cause immediate death to the employee . driver of the loader   was not injured .
employee was working off a 6 '' step ladder he slipped off the 2nd step landing on his left wrist
employee was sliding a rock breaker part on a pallet from the backhoe bucket into the bed of a pickup truck . the board on the pallet came off causing the employee to lose his balance and fall backwards . he   attempted to break his fall which resulted in the majority of his body weight on his right arm and wrist .
injured was working on the east side of the grate , below recoup duct , on dampers in the palletizer . injured stepped off of a step approximately   3-4 feet and landed on a water hose twisting his right ankle . injured heard a pop .
employee was standing in safety sled while scoop was going by in big block . when scoop went by him the canopy hit his left hand . started losing time 9/7/02 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on e mains in the number 5 entry at spad 8179. the fall measured 18 ft wide by 40 ft long by 14 ft high .
haul truck operator had just received the first dipper load in the truck , and radioed the shovel operator to stop , employee's neck hurt . employee was taken to the emergency room and taken off work for 2 shifts . employee called in after the 2 shifts , saw employee's primary care physician , taken off until 8/29 . saw employee's primary care physician , and taken off another two weeks . currently ongoing .
associate sought medical treatment for sore wrist . no report of injury was filed prior to the doctor appointment .
employee was going to repair a feeder and when he stepped up to it he stepped in a hole and pulled something in his back .
7 mains 2 , 29 block , 8 entry , mobile mining unit 002 , spad number 16525. support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , cribs , pans , dywidag truss bolts , straps , 6-12 ' . 17 ' wide x 29 ' long x 8 ' high . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee alleges he was trying to get 3 wheeler unstuck and strained too much on a bar he was using to pry with . alleges strain to stomach , low back and left groin area .
employee was pushing a hydraulic jack through the mud to position it under the rear of a haul truck . employee slipped and felt a strain in his lower back after falling . medical treatment was sought on 1/31/05 and he taken off work .
we were reversing feeder and the employee bumped the switch with his back while having his hand on the v-belts . ring finger on right hand was caught between belt and pulley cutting his finger .
employee was on the upper work deck as forms were being moved up and he stepped in the slot in the grating where the deck support cable comes through and turned his left ankle . the doctor advised no stairs   no weight bearing until 12-11-02 then light weight bearing 12-23-02. next visit 12-20-02
employee was moving a 4 inch water line from a flatcar to a scoop bucket . one end of the pipe fell off the car and when it hit the mine floor it bounced causing his left hand to be mashed against a sharp piece on the scoop ram .
employee reported pain in her right upper extremity that she claims began in march 2004. she was examined by the authorized provider and treated with physical therapy , ice therapy and anti-inflammatory meds .
employee mentioned that he felt dizzy and lightheaded and a coworker told him to sit down in the storage dumpster . employee went to the break room where it was warmer , at this time employee was conscious and talking . at approximately   9 am coworker saw employee having a seizure , his face was red and he appeared to not be breathing . massive heart attack .
employee was installing a suction hose on a 6 '' water pump in the wright branch pit in d4 area when he experienced pain in his lower back on left side . he was taken to etmc henderson where he was diagnosed with a back muscle strain . he was instructed by the doctor not to work the next day .
employee was trapped in t-2 elevator traveling at the balling floor level . he was trapped for approximately 50 minutes . mine safety and health administration was contacted at about 11:15 am . no injuries occurred .
internal audit found need to report an amended restricted days . employee was repairing bottom dump door on rail car when the hinge broke . employee left hand was caught between door and ground .
employee was operating the nut runner and a coworker was using a 8 lb . sledgehammer on the stem of the valve . the coworker struck the stem and the sledge hammer bounced off and struck employee on the top of his right hand . employee's hand was caught between the sledge hammer head and the nut runners trigger . employee was treated for a contusion . employee placed on restricted duty on 08/12/12 .
employee loosened the radiator cap on left-hand drive , hot water and steam was released , resulting in burns to his left hand and forearm .
employee was in the process of setting an i beam when he experienced pain in neck and lower right back , employee did not miss any work , however , he did see a chiropractor , therefore making this a medical report .
fuel truck # k9079 caught on fire on top of hill at the halls creek mine on 2nd shift , operator was ok   and no one was injured . calls were made to mine safety and health administration and state agencies informing them of the situation . ( see attached sheet )
employee was attempting to straighten a steel guard when a weld broke loose and cut his right index finger the length of the finger , requiring stitches .
first talked to me 1/12/01 of problem then after working on jaw and running equipment on 2/22/01 told me that hand and arm and shoulder gave him trouble all weekend see doctor on 2/27/01
while changing the cutting edge on a rubber tire dozer , the operator received a laceration to his left hand .
employee fractured his left hand after slipping and falling at foot level and trying to catch himself with his left hand . employee went to the doctor on 11/15/05 .
employee was evaluated by the company doctor and diagnosed with a standard threshold shift ( standard threshold shift ) . this diagnosis has not been determined as a work related hearing loss .
employee alleges right knee pain in the parking lot prior to the start of a 12 hr night shift . employee was standing outside of his personal vehicle , leaned in to vehicle to grab his lunch and felt a `` pop '' in his right knee . he was evaluated by a physician , released with restrictions and completed his remaining shift . on 1/23 he was evaluated by a specialist and taken off of work .
employee was lifting a belt top frame off of his golf cart , he felt pain in his back as he was lifting . at the request of mine safety and health administration , modified to 7 days before returned to work .
employee was changing feed chute rubber skirting . while repositioning himself , employee grabbed skirting clamp that was hanging , knocked it down on his hand , breaking the tip of his finger .
employee was up on the ladder of 992 loader servicing it and raised up and hit head on the boom . employee then fell over on the fuel truck
employee was dismounting a haul truck . when he stepped to the ground from the last step of the ladder he stepped on a rock and turned his ankle .
at approximately   2:15 am the elevator began having problems while running in automatic . ( would run in manual mode ) . brought men outside - called vendor for repairs .
individual was struck on the forearm by a wrench which fell out of the preheater building .
employee was repairing a broken cable on bulk loading chute . when he went to lower the chute , he hit the wrong button and raised the chute instead . his right hand was caught in the cable resulting in laceration and fracture to the right index finger . he received treatment at emergency room .
employee was assisting in setting a belt head . the belt head was raised using a track jack . employee was placing a half header between the timber and crib . employee raised the timber with one hand while sliding the half header between the timber and crib with the other hand . the track jack tipped over causing the belt head to sit down on blocking material pinning employee fingers on both hands .
employee had the starter hole drilled and the extension steel connected . he was raising the head of the roof bolt machine to insert the extension steel in the chuck . the extension steel caught the side   of the chuck causing the steel to bend and break . it snapped back and struck his left thumb , fracturing it .
roof fall 2 breaks left of spad number 15627 on 5 north belt break # 6. fall was 20 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' thick in track entry . top is laminated sandstone bolted with 4' glue fully grouted . fall is approximately 3000 ft from   section and will be cleaned up .
during kiln shutdown , employee was supervising contract labor and making an inspection of the kiln chain system repair . he was inside the rotary kiln and walking through the 4 start chain system   when he stepped on a chain . it rolled over , causing his right foot to slip off of it . his right knee twisted as his foot landed on other chain , causing strain of his right knee .
employee was working on the primary , employee foot was over the kick plate on man lift , other employee lifted the basket pinning foot between kick plate and belt
while removing a wheeled dumpster by hand he ran into a steel beam and the momentum of the dumpster fractured his wrist .
employee states while he was installing drive belts on the longwall crusher , his right thumb was caught between the belt and pulley causing a crushing and laceration injury to his right thumb . the wound required several stitches .
employee was assisting the removal of structure to gain process to a fall that occurred off of the number 1 section . while loading the top structure . he lost his balance and fell against a piece of structure   . he continued working and completed an accident report on the end of his shift .
while removing lead steel from edd 226 drill employee's   forearm was caught between the carousel and the hot end of the steel when he was putting on a 1/2 '' chain around the lead steel .
on 3/23/02 the injured came to the mine with an excuse from the chiropractor . he stated that his back was hurting and he didn't know how he hurt it . he said he had an exciting weekend . on 3-28 -02 , he stated that on 3-23-02 toward the end of his shift his back started hurting . he knew he was going to be off a day so he didn't say anything about it . he didn't know how he was hurt .
employee was cleaning under a conveyor when his knee popped .
employee was shoveling belt line when he pulled a muscle in his back .
roof fall in the number 7 entry of the number 4 panel off of blue tick mains at spad # 1632. the fall is 4000 ' from an active section . no airways or passages is blocked and no injuries . roof fall is 40' x 20' x 5 ' .
we were using a crib block to block open the tailgate of a mack mud truck so we could clean mud from around tailgate , as we were placing crib block against tailgate , crib block slipped and struck the right wrist of injured employee . he did not want to see a doctor at that time but later on the 24th he went to a doctor .
employee was operating a shuttle car and hit a hole in the roadway number 2 entry .
employee drove his haul truck through a very   rough road , from a dirt shovel to a dirt dump and his seat bottomed to and his back started hurting . he worked until 12-6-00 saw doctor he received medication   received a herniated disc per mri results .
dumping small dumpster and levers caught right thumb .
employee was lifting a small piece of sheet metal ( 2'2 '' x 4' x 1/2 '' ) on a table , assisted by another employee . employee picked up his end of metal almost waist high and stopped . employee felt light headed and asked to sit down . employee was taken by ambulance and was unable to return to work .
accidentally placed finger between froth cell paddle and urethane block after pin came out of one end of paddle .
employee received flash burns to eyes while arc gouging welds . employee was wearing proper personal protective equipment on eyes . it is suspected that reflections of the arc caused the condition . employee was sent to the doctor and diagnosed   with ultraviolet keratitis and received injection and prescription of tetracaine .
employee was driving a 785 rock truck , hauling overburden from a 5230 cat shovel . while being loaded by the shovel a rock fell off the right side of the bucket and landed on the tail board of the rock truck causing the operator to get `` bounced '' in his seat .
employee had a piece of rock between the padding of his knee pads and his knee employee did not know the rode was there and went down on his knee with the weight of his body and hurt his knee .
employee was struck on the head and hurt his neck while in an open mantrip .
employee was unable to work due to back pain . he was handling materials on the 020-0 mobile mining unit . he was lifting a box of resin weighing 20-30 lbs . 1st day away from work 5-28-02 .
employee was exiting the restroom across the hall from the west training room when the door closed on his right foot , twisted his knee and he fell to the floor .
employee stated that while pulling off shuttle car cable , he felt a pain in his stomach .
employee was a passenger in a workhorse scooter when the driver was distracted by a spider hanging from above him . scooter swerved striking a barrier throwing the 2 individuals forward as the seat popped off upon impact . employee's leg/ankle was caught under the seat and was fractured .
a roof fall occurred in the longwall headgate entry approximately 70 ' inby spad # 3087. the fall set down on the longwall headgate shields and approximately 15 ' outby the shields on the stageloader . the fall measured approximately   20 ' wide , 19 ' long and 10 ' high . no one was injured in the fall .
while riding brookville mantrip to section , employee fell asleep and allowed his foot to dangle outside trip . his foot was caught between rib and trip resulting in a bruise to right foot . he was released to return to work but did not show and was reported waiting to see specialist . after talking to him on 5/29/09 , he said he had been under doctor's care and was receiving therapy and pain meds .
employee was to complete a pre-shift examination. he slipped on a rock and fell striking his knee. on 9/27/01 he sought medical attention and was placed on lost time status .
smashed thumb between ( 2 ) stones while palletizing stone .
employee was climbing onto d-9 dozer and slipped and twisted his right knee . employee had surgery on 1/4/07 .
employee was pulling on ratchet wrench when he felt discomfort in right shoulder .
employee was climbing down stairs from personnel carrier . on the last step he slipped or tripped and fell 12-14 '' to the ground . the fall caused the employee to suffer torn tendons and ligaments to both knees .
employee sprain back while lifting gears and other scrap metals out of a container .
employee complained of pain in right leg and back . employee does not know what caused injury or what time it occurred .
employee was trying to pry a rock loose out of the crusher with a crow bar , the crow bar came loose instead of rock hitting him in forehead , causing him to fall on ground . laceration from hair line in right upper to the mid forehead over right eye .
employee bent over to turn water faucet on , causing muscle spasm in lower back . employee has sustained prior spasms in back before which were not work related .
while stepping through a mandoor he tripped . the top of his hard hat struck a brattice causing the hat to hit the bridge of his nose . x-rays show the nose to be broken . no lost time .
this injury was to have occurred while this contract labor was supplying a bolter with bolting supplies and bolter operator moved the machine , ran over his foot . cause of this injury was lack of communication with other workers in area . compliance with rules/regulations not a factor , mining equipment/systems , or personal protective equipment a factor and job skills and miner proficiency may be a factor .
running to shut down conveyor to cone crusher he slipped and fell on debris that had been shot from
mantrip ride - driving the mantrip with belt and belt material in ride . rock came out of top , hit his arm , dove out ride , twisted back , ride was covered up . number 1 belt
while removing metal guard from headdrive , employee mashed his pinky finger between guard and headdrive resulting in 2 cuts requiring 14 stitches .
employee went to check on crew installing pins in track pads . when he was 5 - 6 feet from the crew he felt a sting in his left cheek which began to bleed . a splinter of metal from the edge of the pin flange splintered off and embedded into his cheek . this caused a 3/4 '' cut that required stitches .
employee was attempting to bring down 12c apron feeder which was hung up . because of problems with the poke holes at the rear of the feeder , he was working the poke holes at the front of the feeder . while standing on the chain guard on the east side of the feeder , he slipped and broke his chain guard on the east side of the feeder , he slipped and broke his fall with his left arm . was evalutated
employee was driving water truck down the middle ramp . he ran over a bump in the ramp causing him to hit his head on the top of the cab . he hit the air conditioner there is a cut on his head . it took   8 stitches to close .
several unplanned roof falls has occurred in the numbers   2,5,6,7 , and 8 intersections one cross-cut inby survey spad number   375 the mine is in ba status and no one working underground only weekly examinations being conducted . all access to the falls will be dangered off and cribs built to prevent entry of persons .
employee was removing a differential housing from a caterpillar 992g end loader . the housing fell , employee twisted his right   ankle avoiding the falling housing .
employee alleges he struck his kneecap on a rung as he was ascending a ladder . at date of report he has been diagnosed as unable to return to work pending an mri and any recommended treatment .
employee was trying to adjust the air operated feed gate in the pelleted tunnel when he hit the top of the valve causing it to close and catch his finger in it . this took the tip of his finger off . did not have air turned off to the air operated gate
employee was cutting a plastic tie with a utility knife . as he was cutting his knife slipped and struck him in the palm .
hauling stone from crusher to stockpile . turning at stockpile , and upset dump truck .
worker was lifting 50 lb . bags of grout and strained back . refused medical treatment and resumed duties . over the next months the condition continued and eventually a doctor recommended surgery for herniated disc . surgery was done on 2/6/13 and he was immediately released back to work with restricted duties .
rail flipped back and struck employee on left lower leg .
employee was checking pump floats when he crossed the discharge line he stepped on a rock with his right foot and twisted his right knee . employee has been having injury treated and received an injection on 9/29/09 making this injury reportable .
employee was throwing a belt roller under the bottom belt during a belt move in j tailgate section and felt pain in his left groin . employee has continued to work but was diagnosed with a hernia on 10/5/2009 .
injured was putting a wrecked mantrip back on the track . injured was using a jack and bar to lift the mantrip . the jack slipped causing the jack bar to strike injured in the nose .
employee was unhooking the engine from the rail cars . he could not reach the air valve on the engine from the side he was on so he crawled up on the rail car hitch so he could get to the valve . when he did , he slipped . he used his right arm to catch himself . that is when he hurt his wrist .
on 2/11/13 , employee strained his lower back as he was attempting to lift the end of a vent tube into place in the number 2 entry of 21st west . employee reported the incident to his foreman and continued working all of his shifts until 2/25/13 , at which time he went to the doctor and was instructed to be off from work until a mri could be conducted and evaluated .
employee indicates that he came back to the maintenance shop at the end of his shift to clean up before leaving home . he had been working in fairly dusty area prior to this . he says he took off his safety glasses at his locker and believes that may have been when a particle fell into eye . he dismissed it as not being a problem until next morning . doctor did not find anything released full
a methane ignition occurred in the number 1 entry on the west main left section as the roof bolters was installing roof bolts . as the roof bolter went to tighten the roof bolt he saw a flame from around the roof bolt plate .
the employee was constructing a stopping at 59 cross-cut number 1 section between number 7 and number 8 entries . the area was 9 ' 3 '' high and 18 ' 8 '' wide . employee was standing on a ladder to place another block on the stopping . as employee placed the block , a section of rock measuring 24 '' x 13 '' x 1 '' fell out and struck employee on top of the right hand . the injury took 7 stitches to close .
bad top with wet weak thin layed laminated top . this area was heavily cribbed . heizmann jacks and jacks with beams . we used longer bolts when developed . we used 4 and 6 foot bolts staggered pattern . some 8 ' bolts all resin fully grouted . the area was developed in january of 2004 and was 55 ft long , 20 ft wide , 6 ft high . 9000 feet from working face .
injured was stepping over safety chain with left hand balancing on chain , chain end released causing injured to fall to the ground . doctor saw employee on 4/9/03 and restricted injured .
employee fell to ground while descending steps located on counterweight on 988-f loader , in the act of refueling .
while employee was cleaning frozen material from a chute under the jaw , using a short prybar and hammer , he felt pain across his upper back . on 2-5 he sought medical attention and was returned to work   with restrictions . on 2-15 employee was released to full duty status .
mechanic and welder were in the jlg man basket removing a leveling cylinder pin . welder was repositioning the basket the machine was shut off and the boom started to settle resulting in the arm sliding forward . as the boom lowered it pinned the mechanic between the upper bucket and the back railing of the man basket resulting in an injury to the mech left ear . seen at emergency room received sutures
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number   7 entry along the number   7 belt line near spad # 02813. fall measured 20' long x 20' wide x 48 '' high. ventilation was not affected and the fall area will not be rehabilitated   . all entrances to the fall have been breakered off .
the employee stated he was moving rock off miner and pinched his finger ( left middle ) between rock and top . `` as requested by mine safety and health administration , this information is being submitted by brody mining , llc as a result of a part 50 audit for personal point of view '' .
employee was attempting to hang a light on the number 70 long wall shield using zip ties . while doing so employee was attempting to cut off the excess zip tie with a razor knife and slipped and cut the left hand . employee received stitches to close laceration .
employee was removing a lid from dust collector , slipped on pipes below his feet and twisted lower back .
employee was struck by a piece of drawrock and cut head and broke nose .
rock got caught in door of the number 25 bin employee was using shovel to knock rock loose . rock rolled down the shovel and hit him on the forearm .
employee was tightening bolts on a drive line and felt a sharp pain in right shoulder . seen at clinic and placed on restricted duty .
employee was loading parts when wing blew foreign body into right eye causing 2 scratches to retina . this occurred on mine property @ a machine shop where the parts were located .
employee was walking with a 50 lb . bag of anfo and employee's back went out .
the employee was running up 3 flights of stairs to get to the top of the plant . he had been working 6 days a week for 3 months setting up a new plant and running up 3 flights of stairs numerous times per day plus the stress of the new plant not running correctly .
roof fall has occurred at the number 43 cross-cut on the south mains   a   beltline . fall is approximately   25 ft long x 48 ft wide by 8 ft high. the area was bolted with 8 ft install ii bolts and resin with metal straps and wire screen . fall did not affect escapeways/ventilation . cause was failure of beam created by roof bolts . compliance with rules/regulations , protective equip , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
employee was putting up roof bolt , a rock 2 ' x 3 '' x 3 '' fell on arm and leg . injuries resulted in application of splint and sling . this report is being generated under protest to terminate citation number 9006081 .
on 12/24/04 employee was moving a power cable at 146 shovel and felt a muscle pull in his groin . employee continued   to perform regular job until 1/13/05 when employee was seen by a physician and diagnosed with a muscle strain in groin and placed on restricted duty .
unintentional roof fall 6th north panel number 4 entry between 112 and 113 cross-cut . 35' long x 18' wide x 8' high mobile mining unit 051-0 propped on 3 sides cleaning fall up .
employee was using a cable come-along to lift a transmission . the cable crimp ( clamp ) failed , allowing the load and cable to slip . the sudden failure caused come-along frame to strike the employee in the face , lacerating chin . medical treatment for laceration , sutures to face at chin . employee was released for full duty at time of treatment .
employee was putting a torque shaft in on miner when he mashed his hand between metal .
employee started drilling rib holes and outburst occurred .
employee had turned onto the coppers fork haul road and was attempting to put the truck into a lower gear , when it rolled backward upon the bank and turned over in the haul road . employee received 6 stitches to his head and was released .
employee was filling d-8 dozer with fuel and employee slipped off the dozer track .
employee picked up a case of dynamite , walked to the face and when he bent over to set the box down he felt pain in his lower back . employee placed on restricted duty .
employee was attempting to close the door to the heating, ventilation and air conditioning trailer when she felt pain in her left shoulder . the employee was diagnosed with a shoulder strain and placed on restricted duty .
the employee reported while dragging a water hose back to its hanger in the south end of the mill basement near the rod mill discharge . he stepped into a 12 '' diameter by 6 '' deep hole in the concrete . he sprained his knee and fell to the floor on his left shoulder . the employee saw doctor on 10-12-01. the employee began physical therapy on 10-17-01 , two times a week for three weeks .
a piece of slate mine roof fell out between he last row of bolts and the atrs on the operator . the operator complained of pain in his neck , right shoulder and chest .
employee was in number 8 entry of 003 section resetting the tram breaker of the residual current monitor . a rib roll approximately   42 '' x 16 '' x 12 '' pinned him against the miner , injuring his shoulder .
roof fall occurred and found on wet mains , number 4 entry , number 16 cross-cut . fall material made up of laminated rock and clay and clay vein . 9 ' high x 20 ' long x 25' wide . fell in cross-cut extending into the entry . no injuries and no equipment damage . immediate notification to mine safety and health administration and west virginia hot line numbers .
had roof fall in return entry number 2 at break 10-11 inby spad # 39. fall was approximately 6' high x 18' wide x 50' long . fall occurred in a cribbed area . area has been completely cribbed and dangered off .
injured worker attempted to disconnect and remove 2 30 ' sections of 8 '' dialuminum   irrigation piping , to allow a dozer to pass through area . on the second section of pipe , one of the joints were stuck . the injured worker lifted the free end , placed it in a headlock position with his right arm and moved side to side while pushing away from the stuck joint . suffered a hernia .
while working on loader , replacing step ; removing bolt and step , assembly pivoted ; striking left finger . diagnosed 5/10/05 , fracture .
employee stated that he was hooking up hydraulic hoses to chain saw and a piece of draw rock fell , striking him on his left hand causing a laceration .
a roof fall occurred in our west main section ( mobile mining unit 014-0 ) in the number 5 entry . the fall is at spad 65+65 brattice 61 approximately 1000 ' outby the face . it measures approximately 20 ' long , 35 ' wide and 7 ' to 8 ' high .
employee was using a spad gun to hang a piece of curtain , a small piece of rock broke off roof , fell and struck employee on upper lip .
employee had cut a hole in top of a hydraulic . oil can so he could pour additional oil in the can as it fills machines without stopping . the can started to fall over , he tried to catch the can and cut his index and middle finger . the lacerations had to be closed with sutures .
while employee was tightening bolt on pump with wrench , wrench slipped , employee lost his balance and fell backwards .
employee was stepping down from his water truck onto the ground , when his leg slipped and he twisted his right ankle
employee was walking across a roof area after obtaining a clinker sample and slipped on a wet surface that also had small clinker particles on it . he fell and hit his right shoulder . the employee   did not seek medical attention until december 4 , 2001 .
employee stated he was pulling rock dust hose when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . employee stated he has continued to have pain in his right shoulder and now it has migrated up in his neck . this has been   ongoing for several years . employee's 1st work day lost occurred on 2/16/01 .
employee was placing a pipe at the breaker - rubber flap caught on pipe flipping up causing debris to enter eyes
employee was working on the longwall face as a longwall helper . a piece of coal came from the longwall face and struck him on the face , causing a laceration that required stitches , making this accident reportable .
employee was tightening down bearing caps with an air impact , dirt blew up from the table he was working on and got into his eye . he was evaluated by an opthalmologist , the foreign body was removed and he was given prescription eye medications .
employee stated that while cleaning number 9 south scrubber with a sledge hammer employee struck left elbow on a beam support . employee was given light duty by a physician .
a rock fall was found in the number 1 mains , number 8 entry approximately one break outby spad number 124. the fall was in the return entry and is not blocking the escape or hindering air flow . the fall is approximately 70 feet long by 20 feet wide by 5 feet high .
employee was working on a telephone line , and cut his left hand. this required six stitches .
4000 cone was packed tight with crushed rock . employee entered from underneath cone to free material , when material came down on top of employee . he was smothered and confined for one hour until he was released .
reportable only due to stitches : employee was cutting rockdust pipe and the locking device on the knife failed and he cut his finger .
employee was holding a nut and washer in place , while putting cutting edges on the 27 rubber tire . employee accidentally hit the trigger on the impact gun and smashed his pointing finger and his middle finger on his left hand .
a non-injury roof fall occurred on the number 3 belt conveyor on northwest mains at survey station # 546. the fall measured approximately 20 feet wide by 5 feet thick by 50 feet in length . a roof fall clean up plan has been submitted to mine safety and health administration and has been approved for clean up of the fall . this fall was immediately reported to mine safety and health administration . no person ( s ) were involved in the fall .
the employee , assisted by another employee , was moving a rail car using a rail car puller . as the employees were in the process of removing the car puller hook from the rail car , the injured employee's left hand/finger became trapped , causing a fracture and lacerations .
after 5a conveyor stalled , employee's left index finger was pinched while checking if the drive motor had locked down .
employee and a coworker were replacing a secondary rotor in a mixer . employee lost grip on the shaft while bringing it to an upright position , allowing the rotor to fall . employee pinkie finger on left hand was caught between the flange on the rotor and rotor tool on the primary rotor . employee received an open fracture at the first finger joint
roof fall on 8e belt 1/2 break inby spad # 29184. fall was approximately 8 ' high 20 ' wide and 65 ' long . bolted with 4 ' glue bolts and will be cleaned up . fall id approximately 2600 ft from number 004 section .
employee using a pry bar to line a piece of steel in a lather , the bar slipped and cut employee's left hand .
employee states that while taking the end cap off of the 140-d mag . separator to clean out material buildup using a pipe wrench , the cap broke free and employee struck his left elbow on the corner of the 140-d. mag separator pan . this became reportable on august 8 when employee sought medical treatment for infected left elbow .
employee's back became sore after operating haul truck on rough roads
a continuation of a fall that was reported on 8/25/2008 was discovered at 11:30am on 12/17/10 . the fall was located between spad number 133 and number 134 between number 2 and number 3 entries on the number 1 southwest panel at break 19. the fall measured approximately 18 ' wide x 60 ' long x 7'-8 ' high .
the secondary return chute was plugged with a big rock . the employee was using a 3 lb hammer to break the rock outside of chute . he quit and was digging out with his hand and i was on the other side of the chute digging rocks out . he picked up the hammer and swung not knowing i had a hold of the rock he was going to hit and smashed the middle finger of the right hand .
employee was clearing bridging wet aluminum trihydrate material from bucket elevator inlet chute with a shovel . the area was restricted access with barricade and signage . shovel got caught to rotating buckets of elevator causing fingers to pinch between the shovel handle and inlet chute . employee received treatment from hospital emergency room for finger closed fracture and nail avulsion .
while removing a pin from an addcar with his right hand , he dropped the pin on his left thumb crushing his thumb .
a coworker was cutting tire brackets off of the lower fairlead on dragline 28. employee was holding the plate so it would not fall . once cut , he put it down . he lost his hold ; it slipped and smashed his fingers . the rough edge of the plate caught his glove and prevented him from getting his hand free . sutures to ring and middle fingers ; fracture to tip of ring finger . aggravated a hernia .
employee had a horizontal door on the domatsu backhoe fall on his forearm .
retracking beams using hammer , hammer missed bar and hit fingers on right hand .
employee from trucking company was picking up agricultural lime in a extended open dump body truck . he was standing on a ladder at the front of the dump body . as he was directing the loader operator where to dump the third of 4 buckets in the middle of the truck , the bucket came in contact with the side rail and rocked the dump body . the employee rocked back then jumped off . he injured his shoulder .
employee fell 3-4 feet off ladder landing on his feet . he said he hurt his knee but did not think the injury amounted to anything so did not report it . six days later he developed a rash on his back . when he went to the doctor he said he hurt his knee . he was diagnosed with shingles and the employee said the doctor told him it was caused by his knee injury . the knee injury didn't keep him off work
employee stepped over a curb onto a portable stand and slipped on the stand steps as he was taken a sample at building 450. on september 19 , ehs office received a facsimile copy stating the employee had received   prescription medication from the local medical clinic . employee continues to work .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis claim for employee .
employee was preparing to set up his machine to start a cut in # 1l . he was standing beside the miner head examining the roof conditions inby the miner . a piece of rock fell out between the bolts above the head of miner . the rock struck the head and flipped off striking the employee in the shoulder . he was taken to the hospital for x-rays . the x-rays were negative for broken bones .
welder was using a dye grinder to clean up a weld when he started feeling something in his left eye . the employee washed out the eye with a saline solution for 5 minutes and still had the same feeling . the employee stated that he was wearing full personal protective equipment , including a face shield .
while roof bolting a rock fell and struck the hard hat of the employee , pushing hat onto employee's glasses , which caused glasses to lacerate employee's nose .
employee was fatigued from performing normal job assignments . he came down from the plant to get his water bottle and steadied himself against the super sack bagger support leg . he felt dizzy , passed out , and awoke on the floor with a laceration on his knee . he lacerated his knee on the scale frame and was taken to the emergency room where he received 5 stitches
the employee slipped on a sidewalk , striking his elbow . an initial medical examination showed no injuries and he was only given work restrictions for the remainder of the day . months later , pain started in his shoulder . an mri in july 2014 showed ac degeneration and tendonitis in the right shoulder .
on 5/2/06 a fall of ground occurred in ue-162m intersection the ground fall occurred after shooting ue162 worth and continued falling on to 8 m back couple of houses it approximately arched up about ten feet , going to feet past point anchor .
inby spad 1486 between 1+2 entry a horse's back fell in track entry 7 breaks outby face , of 002 section . fall has been cleaned up and bolted . reported to mine safety and health administration 7:55 am .
redline - contractor employee ( fritz construction ) was working north of storm water pond when he noticed leg was itching and irritated on wednesday 4/11 . employee was sent to doctor by fritz , friday 4/13 . infected spider bite was diagnosed . prescription medication given for swelling / infection . returned to work thursday 4/19 . 3 missed days . operator notified 4/16/12
employee was walking up steps to ma control room when he had a cramp in his leg causing him to fall to ground . when he fell to ground he hit his right shoulder on steps . employee initially didn't want   to go to doctor . after a couple of months it was still bothering him so he went to doctor . employee had surgery to repair torn rotator cuff on 4/24/12 .
employee reported : standing alongside his diesel ride parked along the mine travelway reviewing maintenance order reports when a piece of draw rock measuring 1 '' x 1 '' x 2 ' fell from between roof bolts striking   his head and sliding down his back . experienced a possible neck strain and abrasions to his back . started loosing scheduled work days 7-5-03 .
injured worker ( 1w ) was replacing conveyor 26 head pulley guard over   v   bolts from a standing position when he noticed irritation and discomfort on his left knee .
while trimming a piece of slate a piece of slate hit him in the left eye  
two men were being lifted up in an enclosed work platform with a telehandler to perform task on structural steel frame . the work platform was passing by frame work and injured worker had right arm out .
attempting to install a roof bolt when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on left foot .
employee was in process of installing roof bolt when bearing plate caught drill guide causing plate to jerk back catching employees left thumb and bending his left thumb backwards ( hyperextension ) .
employee was stepping over a short retaining wall , carrying a box , in doing so he hit his left knee on a angle iron brace . on 1-5-01 employee sought medical aid , as he experienced discomfort   .
employee was helping remove ceiling tiles in bathroom . at break time , employee removed personal protective equipment and sweatshirt when something entered eye .
employee pinched right ring finger between air lance   t   handle and doorway of cement plant clinker cooler while using air lance to break up a high pile of clinker inside the cooler . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
employee was roof bolting with drill when rock fell from top , hitting employee on left hand resulting in puncture wound to left hand .
employee walked behind a backing forklift and got his left foot run over by the steering tire . forklift operator had checked behind him and the backup alarm was operating , however the employee walked into the forklift's     path , apparently unaware the machine was moving or distracted by some other activity .
employee was supervising miner when rock rolled off of rib and struck him on the back of his legs causing him to fall into the miner and break his nose
ie was climbing up on dozer and grabbed the handrail as employee stepped up foot slipped off the step pulling on employee's arm .
employee stated he was cutting plastic off of supplies . knife slipped and cut his finger .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd south panel at spad # 24+20 , entry # 2. the fall measures 19' long x 19.8 ' wide x 10 ' high .
a continuation of a roof fall located between number 1 and number 2 entries at spad 2509. continued into number 1 entry and fell up to spad # 2520. fall measured 16 ' high x 95 ' long and approximately   3500 ' outby section . fall was breakered off .
mixed fuel line came off at connection and sprayed employee in the face and eyes .
the miner listed below was drilling a hole into a piece of sheet metal on an excavator with a 3/8 '' drive electric hand drill . as the bit broke through the other side , the bit `` grabbed '' and started jerking . the drill slipped out of his hands and spun around striking his right hand .
employee was stacking 50 lb bags on a pallet and pulled muscles in lower back . employee was released to come back to work on 8/25/08 but chose not to return until 8/26/08 . treated at custer regional clinic by doctor for lower back strain .
employee was operating the 15 ton brookeville motor when he wrecked in the switch at 5 break 3d at the spur switch . he bruised his right shoulder .
employee was fueling a dozer , handling the fuel hose when he started having pain in his right shoulder , neck and arm . he thinks he strained himself handling the fuel hose .
employee is a mechanic and has been for 30+ years . he has had wrist pain and weakness for some time . he was repairing on a personnel carrier and his wrist couldn't hold up a trailing arm and it fell . this caused his hand to swell and start hurting more . he continued to work and was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome . he was taken off work on 12/11/2009 .
employee was lifting a piece of pipe into the loader bucket when he pinched his finger between the pipe and bucket .
initial audiometric test indicated a reportable standard threshold shift shift . employee was seen by an audiologist between the initial test and retest . he was scheduled for surgery due to skin cancer in his right ear . retest was conducted , but results were invalid due to medical condition . standard threshold shift shift is being reported at this time and baseline will be revised .
employee stated that he hurt his back pulling cables . time of injury is unknown in that pain occurred after the shift .
employee was lifting miner cable and water line and hanging it to the top and strained his back and shoulders .
the supervisor was installing a fuse in fuse holder . his hand slipped and made contact with electrical power . in pulling himself off he slipped and fell cutting the side of his face on junction box . eleven stitches were put in his face at the hospital .
a roof fall was found in the number 3 main entry one cross-cut inby spad # 75. the fall was 20 ' by 20 ' by approximately 9 feet in thickness . the area was dangered off , and additional support was set in the area . the fall did not disrupt ventilation or the mining cycle .
employee states strained back while working on pipeline for the dredge . stated working out of a designated work boat and a gust of wind blew and started to separate the pipeline . employee states shoulder popped and he stopped working and stretched . he went back to work for the rest of the day with no problems . on monday 6/13/05 he reported to the emergency room with back pain and said it was work related .
roof fall - c-entry , 2 1/2 south c @ 15+15 . approximately 35 ' long x 25 ' wide x 8 ' high . sandstone and gray shale .
employee notified supervisor of pain in shoulder in december 2016. employee had noticed pain in shoulder that was bearable prior to that . had surgery on shoulder in 2011. notified supervisor of increased shoulder pain after work in the shop but thought it'd   go away given some time . injured employee has been maintenance   mechanic for 5 years , did outby work for 2 years and cm production for 6 years prior to that .
the slope hoist was down from 11:00 am till 5:30 pm on 3/24/2015 . the auxiliary brake on the hoist gear box was sticking . this condition was repaired and the hoist put back in service .
employee was installing two new electric motor starters in existing panel box . turned breaker off to what he thought was the circuit he was working on . it was not the right breaker . came in contact   with hot wires causing a flash .
employee tripped on his loose shoe sole and fell between his stockpile truck and a catwalk causing a bruised leg . he was taking medication for 2 days which prevented him from working
attempting to change belts on pump - got left thumb caught between sheave and belt . jerked thumb out of pinch point , lacerating thumb and breaking tip of bone . injury required stitches .
injured was lifting a cable and strained shoulder . continued to work but had discomfort on 12-23-2016 injured had mri performed and on 12-28-2016 was informed that injured had a torn rotator cuff in the shoulder .
employee went to her vehicle in the parking lot to go home after work . she was folding up the third seat in her expedition and the seat fell back on her arm , bruising her right lower arm . she had restricted   day of work on 7-26-01 due to the injury . xrays taken were negative , her arm was bruised .
employee was turning on water hydrant in a push-pull motion to activate fly ash pump . while pulling , employee strained right shoulder . employee was still sore on january 5 and was sent to medical   clinic and placed on restricted duty .
correction/entered incorrectly : north 6 , 6 entry , between 15 and 16 block , mobile mining unit 004 . 18 ' wide x 15 ' long x 6 ' high . support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , pans , screen , bars and jacks . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site .
dust blew into employee's left eye causing irritation . the commercial loadout screw was discharging lime onto the stockpile truck . the water spray system was replaced with a new system and it was being tested .
assumption is that employee lifted latches that secure a door , opened the door and put left hand inside mill ( mill 02 ) while the mill was in operation . as of the date of this report the employee has declined to provide a statement of the incident and there were no witnesses . employee suffered amputation to left thumb and 2 or more fingers .
a rock fell from roof above arched area of m east travel way at number 148 cross-cut . rock damaged wood lagging and arch top beam , fell through arch onto mine floor .
an unintentional roof fall was found in the number   7 entry of the e-5 panel at spad 7915. the fall measured 18 ft wide , 12 to 15 ft high , and was 20 ft long when first found . then over the next 8 hours extended to 100 ft long .
while walking number 3 belt , employee heard roof bolt pop . he turned to look back and slipped off of bridge material . lost balance and reached for pipe chain to catch his balance . felt pain in left shoulder and lower back . area was wet and muddy . employee began missing work on 6-4-04. diagnosed as a rotator cuff tear on 6-4-04 .
employee was removing the center support bar from the belt-rock to put it threw the center of a new roll of belt , the support bar slipped out of his hands and caught his finger between the support a bar and the frame of the belt rack causing the injury .
a fire was discovered in the number 1 silo at approximately   11:45 pm on sunday , july 6 , 2003. the fire appeared to be approximately   4 to 5 feet in diameter and 3 to 4 ft in height . the coal that was burning was   extinguished by running it through the preparation plant . mine safety and health administration investigated the incident on july 8 , 2003 .
operating the front end loader , loading shale into the stamler . lost time 6/3/05 , diagnostic treatment only before .
employee was attempting to take a hose off of a fitting with a hammer . he hit his left index finger with the hammer , smashing finger .
employee was hammering another employee's hammer to drive the a pin in to replace a cat track pad on a miner . his finger got smashed between the hammer handle and the tram gear box on the miner . sent to emergency room for treatment . employee has compound fracture ( doctor pinned bone together ) and was placed on restrictions .
rock fell and hit employee on the head .
employee was entering motor control center room . when switching his weight to his right leg his foot slipped out from under him . he placed his right arm out to catch his fall causing the injury . returned to work without restrictions 3/24/15 . returned to doctor for evaluation . reportable as of 4/22/15 for medical treatment . physical therapy ordered for tendinosis .
was changing forks to bucket ad right side tilt arm wouldn't move so we raised bucket up and was tilting at same time when right side tilt arm pin exploded , and hit him in the arm and waist .
employee states that employee was cleaning the number 5 scrubber before employee went on break . at break time , employee took glove off and noticed blood inside employee's glove from a laceration to right middle finger . employee is unsure how it occurred .
injured had picked up a crib block when a crib fell and struck him
while removing a urethane screen , using a pry bar , it slipped and struck employee on the left side of his upper lip .
employee states he was loading valves onto crane truck when one fell over and crushed his right little finger between 2 valves . his finger was partially amputated at the the 1st knuckle at the tip of his finger . the finger was reattached at the hospital .
during an examination a roof fall measuring 20 ' long , 20 ' wide , and 5 ' thick in the intake entries 4000 ' from the working section . the fall was located in the number 9 entry inby spad 58227 along number 3 belt which was developed august 07. the type of roof support used was a 5 ' glue bolt . fall did not impede travel or ventilation and occurred due to laminated rock and coal in the immediate roof .
this employee alleges that he felt a sharp pain in lower abdomen when he said he slipped in mud trying to put up a heavy curtain board . he worked the remainder of the year without missing time but required surgery on 11/27/00 to repair . he began missing time on 11/27/00 .
taking out auger shaft - using crane and chain rigging . rigged chain around shaft on 1 end , other end had chain around auger flight . employee had his hand wrapped around chain , chain slipped off flight pinning left hand against auger housing and chain . the crane had tension on so when it slipped it pinned employee's 2 fingers . then crane pulled up on chain lacerating fingers .
a pit blast hole driller was attempting to destroy a damaged nylon choker by hitting it to cut it in 1/2 with a drill steel . the choker slipped and the driller hit his hand .
using a form clamp spring loaded to remove a concrete from . when employee went to push the clamp on spring was too tight , sprung back , jammed his shoulder .
a roof fall occurred on a off shift 5 breaks inby 2-d belt head . fall was approximately   35 ft long x 14 ft wide x 4 ft high .
chemical burn on right forearm . interior of protective clothing was inadvertently contaminated by chemicals which had been exposed to rubber gloves . employee placed protective clothing onto self while   wearing contaminated gloves . while placing the clothing on , the interior of clothing was contaminated by the gloves thus transferring the chemical to forearm .
employee was wearing safety glasses with welding hood while welding seams of steel while wind blew foreign debris into left eye . debris was embedded and removed at occupational doctor . he was   released to full work duty 5-8-00 .
a roof fall measuring 40 ' long , 18 ' wide , 7.5 ' thick was found in the number 3 entry adjacent to the number 5 north belt approximately 1700 ' outby the active section . the area was developed may 06 with 5 ' torque tension roof bolts . laminated coal and rock streaks above the anchorage zone was the cause . ventilation and the passage of personnel was not affected . no injuries occurred .
roof fall at spad # 1528. intersection 7 ft high 18 ft wide and 20 ft long . neutral entry .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the 4 way intersection of entry number 5 at 2 + 30 in the 1st south panel off of 2nd main east . did not affect ventilation or impede travel . the roof was supported   by 4 ' fully grouted resin roof bolts installed in out current approved pattern . development date was 10/5/00 .
employee had oil on sole of boot after changing oil in gear box of deister screen . stepped on steel step of cat walk , slipped and fractured left heel . placed on light duty .
cleaning gyratory bin , he stumbled , grabbed a chain that was hanging on a hoist and a second chain that was on hoist struck him in the mouth , chipping front tooth .
employee was walking across the pump platform , he stepped over a pipe and twisted his ankle .
injury was attempting to clear a jammed belt on conveyor c-16 . while it was running a attempted to grab a rock from between the scraper and belt when his glove was caught by the belt and pulled his right index finger between the belt and scraper and took the skin off the inside of his finger and blackened his nail . he had a remote to stop conveyor
employee was in process of loading steel track clip ties , as he bent over to pick up ties he experienced pain in low back and hips .
stung by a bee / allergic reaction .
employee was pulling on two dwyidags that were caught under some laggin when he felt a pain in his lower back .
an office employee was walking to her car after completing her scheduled shift . she stepped wrong , rolling her ankle and striking the parking lot . there was no slip , trip or fall . the parking lot was free of obstructions and snow/ice . the incorrect placement of her foot caused the employee to sustain a chipped tooth and minor abrasions .
conveyor belt 8 was destroyed by fire when flooded with hot clinker from the short dredge bucket elevators and clinker cooler . lighting and other control wiring was destroyed .
a roof fall occurred in the south sub mains at 9 cross-cut in entry # 7. the fall measured 25 ' long , 25 ' wide and 9 ' high . the fall did not affect ventilation , travel or cause injury . it will not be cleaned up .
a roof fall was discovered at 13-11 cross-cut , number 9 entry of the main east return . approximate dimensions of 20 x 20 x 12 .
employee was removing a steel frame from a railing that was being installed on a new production plant. the frame was attached to the rail by bolts and tack welds . after removing the bolts the tack welds failed to hold the frame causing it to fall 6 '' on to the employee foot. employee incurred a minor fracture to his big toe on his right foot . the employee was able to continue working his normal duties no lo
employee had changed a light on cab of d10n dozer . as he changed body position , he either slipped or tripped and fell off dozer to the ground .
employee was attempting to install a metal roof strap in regular bolt pattern when strap flexed and sprung back striking employee on left forearm . employee suffered a laceration and received 7 sutures .
north 3,25 block , 5 entry , mobile mining unit 003 , spad # 5141. support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , jacks . 12 ft wide x 14 ft long x 7 ft high . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site .
worker sustained a same surface fall while he was walking across a raw material hopper grizzly grate . he fell through the grating causing him to hit his chin on the metal grating . worker did not lose consciousness but sustained a laceration to his chin requiring sutures .
rubber tire dozer operator was moving spanner poles and performing cleanup in the shovel pit and claims to have aggravated a pre-existing back injury . he left work intending to see his primary care physician , currently ongoing .
employee improperly bent over to lift an 8 '' discharge hose and strained his lower back . sent to doctor , x-ray negative , prescription medication , restricted duty , diagnosed as lumbar strain .
employee pinched finger between two rocks while stacking landscape stone . injury was an avulsion of the right ring finger .
the employee was walking through the plant area and stepped on ice covered with snow . he slipped and fell on his upper back causing a contusion and strain . he was given a prescription .
repairing water line with two shop employee's who were using a bar ( ~15 lbs . ) to raise line , the bar slipped and struck the employee on the right shoulder . the foreman was aware but employee did not think he needed medical attention . monday when employee reported to work with pain in right should was sent to medical treatment . this resulted in mine safety and health administration reportable .
while adjusting the flipper on the shredder , the adjusting lock nut broke loose . the wrench he was using slipped forward and his momentum carried him into a guard on the machine . this caused a cut above his left eye , resulting in 3 stitches .
employee was measuring product silos : he stepped onto a bin door and twisted his back when he moved backward off the door . the door is approximately   3 '' high . employee was taken to community hospital for evaluation . initial diagnosis was muscle spasms .
employee was crossing under a belt conveyor , when water and mud splashed off of the conveyor into his face and eyes .
injured was hauling slate from the prep plant to an area to bed down a road . injured assumed it would be easier to back out the road instead of heading out as the others . as he began to back out   of the road , he noticed he was too close to the ditch . his rear tires slid about 4 ft into the ditch overturning truck . he was examined at the hospital and released .
east panel number 2 entry , approximately 20 ' inby center line of number 7 cross-cut , top had fell out approximately 12-14 '' semi-domed , employee ran drill steel up against roof . pressure on steel cause a piece of rock to break off causing drill steel to shift/slide sideways striking index finger on left hand . employee had moderate bruising/swelling and pain . doctors results showed a dislocation .
while cutting towards the headgate with the longwall shearer , a rock scour was encountered . sparks from the cutting drum apparently ignited hydrocarbons coming from the roof resulting in a fire . the fire was extinguished in approximately 30 seconds by the fire suppression system and a water hose .
employee was bolting a roof rail . he stepped upon the drill boom to put glue into the hole . he became dizzy and fell off the boom .
employee and 2 coworkers were working on the 005-0 section , hanging miner cable . employee's arms were above his head when he placed miner cable and water line into the cable hanger . employee immediately felt pain   in his mid back . he was taken to williamson memorial hospital where he was diagnosed with a herniated disc at l4 .
climbing down from the fuel truck and his foot slipped off of the step . he bruised his right leg .
employee was pushing a load with his right leg and felt something pop in his lower back .
employee was walking back into our 12 ft diameter kiln and was approximately 100 ft inside kiln when he slipped on some loose castable and fine debris built up on the sides of the kiln . when he slipped   he stopped himself from falling with his right hand .
while the employee was boarding a mantrip , a rock fell from the top , striking him on his right hand . the employee was treated and released to return to normal duty the next day . after a follow-up physician visit , it was determined that the injury did not heal correctly and requires surgery . the employee began missing work on 3/14/2012 .
employee was internal cab of 40 ton truck when his right hand slipped from the hand hold . employee's   left hand reminded the hand hold and arm was twisted as his momentum pulled him away from equipment .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 009 mobile mining unit at break number 29 in the belt entry . roof fall was approximately   50 ' wide x 25 ' long x 6 ' high . laminated sandstone/slate .
ie used shovel to scrape material buildup off return idler . it appeared that the shovel caught between the up turning idler and the angle guard the shovel handle came up quickly hitting injured on chin injured dropped shovel and fell approx 6-8 ft away . it appeared that he bit tongue when hit in chin
employee in laydown yard lifting 1/4 '' steel plate 4' x 4 ' to load on buggy . plate slipped on to right foot behind steel toe in boot resulting in fracture of big toe and 3rd and 4th toes . plate was slippery and muddy from rain .
employee was in parts room getting parts and when he came out he felt something in his right eye . employee did not know when he would have got something in his eye . dirt in eye , it was windy that day .
employee was installing drill wrench on his steel , the wrench slipped off striking his left hand , causing his thumb to be dislocated .
employee was operating shuttle car . a miner cable that was hung from roof plates fell striking employee in the face . employee's lip was cut and two teeth knocked out .
employee was assisting in hoisting belt together in order to make a splice when the chain they were using broke . the chain struck him in the mouth and jaw causing a laceration to the lip . he was taken   to the hospital and received 5 stitches .
on 6/25/12 employee was going down a ladder on the inside of a compartment to the lowest level module . he was going to step onto the floor , but there was some build up of material and he felt his ankle twist . employee did not report any pain at this time and continued work . reported discomfort on 7/16/12 . taken to the work clinic for x-ray . found to have a sprained ankle .
employee was working on vehicle 22-311. while working on suspension he heard a popping type sound . he immediately pulled his left arm away from bolts being tightened . the leaf springs may have shifted . springs were not under load .
a roof fall was discovered in number 5 entry 1 break inby spad 605 the estimated size of roof fall is 6 ft high 18 ft wide and 40 ft long . no injuries reported .
employee was assisting a coworker to remove a rub rail from a continuous miner . when he swung the rail he tripped and fell straddling the rail . he states he landed on his testicles . he worked until 6-5-01 at which time he was instructed to remain off work until further notice .
employee picked up a pallet and started to twist around and lay it on another pile when employee felt a pop in employee's back .
employee was turning crusher , when his leg was pinched between crusher and lifting hook on the crusher
employee was getting a piece of metal , he dropped it and it hit the side of his left foot and ankle area .
employee was moving a power transformer onto the barge with two others . they lost their grip and it fell on him momentarily . the injury wasn't bothering him until 7/26/02 it became unbearable .
employee placed the roller on the beam of scrubber . the roller had grease on it so it slipped off of the beam and fell on his right hand , bruising it .
employee was using a razor knife to remove nylon bindings around supplemental roof support plates ( pizza pans ) when he received a laceration to the right hands . wound required sutures .
employee stepped outside during cold and snowy conditions to pick up a box of water . subject slipped on a mine belt and fell , twisting his back .
moving 50 lb bags of anfo from front of trailer to rear . tore muscle and ligament in upper right forearm .
employee cut his finger and received sutures while trying to get a piece of rock out of number 3 tailpiece .
no men were on section at the time of fall . fall was on the way in and fell between pre shift and workers getting there . fall measured 4 ft high x 85 ft long . fell at 2 cross cut 1 intersection 3 to 1 across from end of tall piece 2 cross cuts outby ( spad number 831 which is located in number 4 entry ) .
employee was lifting a piece of 8 '' channel iron into place . as he twisted it up with his wrists he felt a pain in his right hand and wrist . he was evaluated by a physician and therapy was started on 12/19/01 .
an unplanned fall of roof occurred in the last open cross-cut on the active working section . the fall measured approximately 38 ' long by 15 ' wide by 6 ' thick . the location was 2 cross-cuts in by station   spad number 28110 in the number 4 entry ( bolt entry ) and adjoining right cross-cut . no injuries and no equipment damage . area supported by 4 ' fully grouted resin rods .
employee was unload a load of cribbing material with a forklift , the pallet of cribbing was raised up and employee was placing a piece of wood under the pallet . pallet slipped smashing his right   thumb . as a result of his finger continued to hurt , went to seek medical treatment 10/12/06 .
a roof fall occurred on the longwall tailgate entry . the fall was approximately   30 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high . the longwall blockage plan was followed and the fall will be mine through .
employee was pulling material off 7b conveyor when he began to feel overheated . he stepped outside to get air and water and began feeling worse . may day was called to have him checked out ; employee was treated for heat exhaustion and dehydration .
the employee was lifting a steel beam with other workers when employee felt a burning sensation in groin area . the following were not a factor : rules , regulations , skills , proficiency , training , equipment , protective devices and clothing . attitude may have been a factor . the employee began losing time on 10/25/16 .
employee was pulling a jack-leg machine and driver off a newly installed bolt when employee slipped causing employee to fall with the machine . employee's right ribs made contact with d-handle . employee reported to supervisor at the end of the shift and was seen by the medic who referred employee to the emergency room . x-rays were positive for a non displaced fracture to a rib and restrictions were issued .
initial visit on 8/13 and diagnosis was a possible pulled muscle . a subsequent visit and test on august 21 revealed a moderate sized herniation of the 5-6 discs .
employee . stepped off a bolter's operator platform , which was approximately   12 '' above ground level and stepped on a rock approximately   3 '' diameter in loose muck , causing his right ankle to twist .
employee alleges he was beating on bin with a piece of metal trying to unplug the bin and he felt pain in his right wrist .
the side of the employee's right foot was struck by the stinger on a jackleg drill .
employee was shoveling when he turned he pulled a muscle in upper left back area .
employee and two other employees were setting a new belt header . header frame was sitting on a duck bill of a scoop . employees were attempting to level the header frame when employee crawled under the boom . the header suddenly tipped forward and struck employee .
employee was attempting to dislodge a large cobble plugging a chute using a pry bar . the pry bar slipped and employee fell back on platform . bar struck him above his left eye brow causing an approx . 3.50 cm laceration . employee received stitches and was released back to full duty .
employee was building stopping when he mashed finger on right hand .
employee was getting off a 980 front end loader when he slipped , causing pain in his lower back .
slipped in/on mud on top of storage silo number 2. foot caught channel ( metal support that holds air lines ) and twisted/bent backwards . employee feels pain on top of foot and in toes .
employee requested medical treatment on july 9th and was placed on restricted duty . employee stated he was turning water valve using a wrench . during the process , the wrench was stuck and when he applied additional pressure , the wrench slipped off the valve and alleged he fell backwards . diagnosed with lumbosacral sprain , lower and upper back contusion ( s ) , and back abrasion .
the employee was removing slag from a slag pot . a sharp piece of slag went through her leather glove and cut the employee's hand .
employee was prying on a push beam latch bar , slipped hitting him on his left ( thigh ) leg ; causing a very large blood blister .
an employee was putting a 4 '' pipe into a warman pump tank when employee's feet slipped causing employee to fall into the tank at which time employee's left hand was smashed between the pipe and the tank .
employee was using a freightliner water truck to wash out under the field conveyor . the nozzle came off . the employee then crimped the hose turned to shut the water off at the valve . the hose came uncrimped and employees hand slipped the hose clamp cut employees hand
the employee working in direct sun light without water or taking frequent breaks adding a joint to the dredge line . employee failed to follow instructions to come off the pond . he went home without properly notifying supervisor and later that evening went to emergency room and was diagnosed with heat exhaustion .
walking down steps of washplant control tower when he fell hitting landing on back and neck area .
water spraying from a discharge pipe startled employee causing him to step back and trip . the fall injured his back .
a rock fall 6 ' high , 20 ' wide , 40 ' long was found near break 79 at spad number 1668 in the number one entry of the panel 6a . this fall did not hinder travel or flow of ventilation .
exiting conveyer stepped on stones twisted right ankle .
employee complained of left wrist and shoulder hurting . this could be the result of bagging product ( 99 lb bags ) .
employee was operating shuttle car . going from feeder to the miner tire went over a rock in roadway bouncing employee into the canopy of the shuttle car . hurt employee neck .
employee was operating a jack hammer . the jack hammer slipped and finger was smashed . reason for reporting : restricted duty .
employee stepped off getman scaler and twisted right ankle . employee placed on restricted duty on 2/05/16 and returned to full duty on 2/12/16 .
occupational illness : inguinal hernia .
employee was loading a volvo hauler from a bin with 6 '' rip rap when he got struck by a piece of rock . the rock may have struck the left side of his hard hat causing a contusion to the left side of his head ( temple area ) .
while working on the feeder , employee stepped off of the feeder and heard a popping in knee . employee had immediate pain after employee heard the pop .
employee is not sure when or how he got something in his left eye it just started hurting .
employee was assisting a coworker who was welding a seco shaker frame when he received an arc flash . employee did not feel the injury was severe enough to report right away . informed employer on 7/14/06 .
employee was jostled in a truck when the bed fell . he was examined and released as a first aid case . he was examined again on 1/11/07 as a result of increased symptoms from the initial incident . physical therapy was prescribed and administered .
employee was in process of climbing a 992 c cat front end loader , when entering operators compartment , felt a sharp pain in mid right lower back area . while trying operate front end loader pain became more intense , at that time co worker notified foreman of injury .
the employee was hand leveling the floor of a shallow trench for a sewer leech field . a side wall cave and buried the mans legs up to his knees . his left knee twisted causing the injury . the man was flown to the dillingham hospital for x-rays .
the number 8 elevator was reported down at 3:53pm . the elevator was above the top landing . the car had faulted on counter with switch and car up over travel . the counter weight buffer switch was cleaned and lubed and the car placed back into service at 8:30pm . all necessary agencies were notified and no individuals were on the elevator at the time .
employee has been experiencing pain in the cervical area whenever he operates haulage trucks . he was diagnosed with degenerate disc disease and arthritis in his neck . a physician has recommended th at employee not return to work at this time .
employee was on top of railroad car to move storm lids from opening on the car to prepare to move the car to the next loading position . he stated that he was moving the lid and slipped falling into the hopper car partially loaded . he did not have his safety belt on at the time of the incident .
unknown , isp minerals is reporting this standard threshold shift as a precaution and protective measure even though this report may not be required by law . there are presently no indicators that this is a work related hearing loss . a hearing conservation program has been and will remain in effect . isp minerals investigation regarding the cause is ongoing .
employee was pulling water hose in mine . hose caused twisting because of tension on hose . weight was on left foot which was on a loose rock . employee lost control of his footing and spun 180 degrees and fell to ground . no equipment was involved . employee suffered fracture to bone in left leg and misaligned left ankle .
employee was traveling and examining return air course off old number 1 unit and employee's ride was stuck in mud . attempting to pull ride out with come-along it broke striking employee in mouth . employee went to dentist and a crown on employee's tooth was broken . 4-15-2016 it was brought to my attention that a crown was broken and replaced on employee's teeth after seeing a dentist .
employee was removing panel rubrail from a shuttle car . when the rubrail was being placed on mine floor employee injured left thumb .
employee was using a utility knife to splice telephone wire when the knife slipped and lacerated his right middle finger . stitches were needed to close the wound .
a shuttle car broke down in a roadway and was being pushed back with the miner . the car slid up on the bumper of the miner then fell back off bouncing operator against cab of shuttle car .
employee was connecting a portable air compressor to pickup truck trailer . employee pulled and lifted on the trailer tongue and the trailer rolled forward , the trailer tongue stuck the employee's hand that was positioned on the pickup truck bumper .
another employee fell on top of employee when rope snapped being used to pull conduit .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 130 mine that measured 40' long x 20' x 61/2' high .
crew had moved section power box . employee and coworker were attempting to reconnect high voltage power cable plug to rear of sub . positioned behind sub was high voltage cable storage tub . he was standing between sub and storage tub . a scoop traveling in cross-cut behind tub struck rear corner of tub , slewing it sideways pushing front of tub forward catching his ankle against rear of power box .
while operating shuttle car , employee ran over a rock or hole in the roadway , causing him to hit his head against canopy of shuttle car .
employee was operating shuttle car going back to miner when he went through some water and hit a hole . this threw employee's body into top . employee's left side and head , bottom of neck has pain down through his back .
employee reported to hr that he had back pain that was interrupting his sleep and that the pain may be caused by the loader . initially this was thought to be a flare up from a previous claim . recently it was decided that a new injury date would be assigned .
while hanging high voltage cable a section of the cable started to drop out of high voltage hanger and employee attempted to catch the cable . he felt a pain in his right shoulder . the employee stayed on the job until 4/17/2013 when his doctor took a mri of his shoulder .
employee was bolting mine roof when a rock came spinning down the drill steel came off and struck him on the chin causing a laceration to his chin .
employee was hooking dogs onto block when lost balance on ladder and slipped and fell approximately 3 ft spraining his left knee .
bauxite transfer attendant was using a scaling bar to descale a conveyor discharge chute . he pinched his left hand , fifth finger between the scaling bar and the chute causing a laceration that required sutures to repair .
injured was operating a ram car . employee went to make a turn and the center section of the car bottomed out against each other . when the center section connected it jarred employee and employee felt increased pain in lower back .
employee was removing boards on a scaffold . he was taken to the doctor , his eye was flushed and was prescribed eye drops .
employee fell forward in the deck of a rail motor when it derailed and wrecked . employee was diagnosed with two fractured ribs .
employee was walking from breakroom going to catch a product sample and slipped and fell in the travelway ( rained during the night ) . he sustained an avulsion fracture to his left wrist . he is working with restrictions and wearing a splint .
the injured employee was removing a cutting edge from a front end loader ; this involved using an impact gun to remove bolt / nuts which secure the edge to the bucket . the employee did not adequately secure the bolt and their hand was lacerated when the bolt head spun with the nut .
while attempting to move several rocks that fell on g-track , employee claims he lost balance and started to fall , he stuck out his hands to catch himself , claiming injuries to both thumbs . cause of alleged injury was awareness , safety equipment ok . rules and regulations not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment not a factor .
hot slag burned a hole in 02 line when cutting metal with oxyacetylene unit about 6 '' below fittings , resulting in 1st and 2nd degree burns to lower right abdomen at belt line . the 2 x 3 '' area occurred through 5 layers of clothing , 4 of which were cotton or partly cotton . emergency room   administered care and had him take one day off .
employee was using 3 ' ladder to access slides that switch from one silo to another . he was climbing ladder with a pipe used to push the slide . weight of ladder caused it to tip over backwards and employee fell to the ground , a distance of 3 ' . he landed on his left side , bruising his ribs .
employee was taking information from a classifier motor tag plate when dust particles fell from above. some of this material got into his left eye . a small piece of metal became embedded in his eye .
a foreign object made its way into the employee's right eye when grinding on a metal drive sprocket . safety goggles were worn by the employee but continued to fog up . the foreign object may have entered the eye when removing the goggles to clear the lens . the employee's eye was irritated and required medical attention of removing a rust spot and prescribing an antibiotic to clear up the irritation .
employee was walking down stairs with storage box in hands , she stumbled and grabbed left hand railing it gave in and twisted her to the right causing her to fall down on the steps hitting her back .
number 2 hoist had a hydraulic break . mine safety and health administration was notified at 10:00 am , miners evacuated at 10:00 am , evacuation was complete at 10:22 am . hydraulic was repaired , tested , and miners returned underground at 10:40 am .
worker was unrolling detonating cord from a spool using his middle finger as a spindle . a burr or splinter on the spool lacerated the finger .
employee sprained ankle on 4/27/00 ; continued to work until 5/27/00 . at that time , pain and swelling caused him to miss work .
good cool temperature . employee was cutting the dump cable with a blow torch when the cable swung and struck him in his right hand .
on 6/21/01 the employee declined any medical attention , then on july 11 , 2001 he requested to see his doctor for treatment . status changed to reportable . the employee was operating a front end loader , when he hit a bump and the seat bottomed out jarring his back , his left arm also hit the seat arm rest when reaching for the citizens band radio .
while employee was working on holoflite scrubber , he was putting separator baffle adapter in . employee bent over center while pushing and lifting , straining back .
injured stated he was drilling a hole in the mine roof when he hit a crack and let his drill steel come out of the chuck striking him on the fingers .
the employee fractured his right wrist when he was knocked to the ground by falling wooden pallets . the employee and a coworker were stacking and relocating pallets on the north side of the packhouse , when the coworker lifted pallets causing them to topple . the employee was treated on the date of injury and release on restricted duty status pending further treatment .
employee reported wrist pain on 8-9-06 , but doesn't know or when or how it started . doctor states the employee experienced a wrist spain and the employee was put on restrictions for the healing process .
the employee was changing a screen and dropped the screen cloth . as he tried to catch it , he caught his finger between the screen cloth and the side of the screen , resulting in a fracture to left ring   finger .
employee stated that while reaching for a ball of tape on top of his motor , a piece of rock fell and hit him on both hands , resulting in stitches .
while attempting to move a large rock on muck pile , excavator moved off ramp and tipped onto its side . employee was wearing seat belt and was not injured except for bump on head . employee was taken to medical facility for evaluation and released to return to work without restriction .
a roof fall approximately 75 feet in length by 20 feet wide from 1 to 4 feet thick fell in the intake entry between the number 51 and 52 cross-cuts in the 15th west section . it appears that a lateral shift of the top may have occurred . the top in this area consisted of laminated shell and cap rock .
a roof fall was discovered on the 8p section by a fireboss making his weekly exam . the fall was located at number 16 break in the intersection and extending over into the 2 x 3 cross-cut .
employee was attempting to climb up onto the jaw pitman to perform maintenance on the shaft of the jaw pitman . in doing so , while the employee was reaching for a hand hold he acquired a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee alleges that he injured himself while lifting/twisting machine parts . employee alleges conditions had worsened over a short period of time . the employee stated that there was no specific incident that precipitated the injury .
the medical was reviewed and it was made known on 1-17-11 that it was work related . physical therapy was ordered and a series was completed . the employee was driving his dozer , backed into a feeder and was jostled , resulting in an injury to his shoulder .
employee was workingi n high wind area without wearing goggles . wind blew dirt into left eye .
employee was attempting to chock the wheel under ram car number 163 when he smashed his left ring finger tip between the block and the frame of the ram car , resulting in a broken finger tip and a small laceration approximately a half inch long on the inside of his finger tip .
employee was pulling miner cable when he slipped on very slick bottom rock and twisted his lower back .
while replacing the reverse osmosis ( reverse osmosis ) membranes , the employee's right hand was caught between the reverse osmosis housing and the membrane filter . three middle fingers were pinched . the employee was taken to a local hospital immediately after first aid . five stitches were received to close cuts from the accident . follow-up x-rays were taken , but no bone fractures were observed .
employee was working on a hauler utilizing the manlift . while in the manlift basket , employee moved to another location . while moving , the manlift hit a hole causing the basket to jar the employee into the handrails hurting his lower back . employee was prescribed physical therapy starting june 2,2005 .
employee was getting off 777d truck when he bumped his knee on the corner of the step .
operating mantrip steering knob jerked in employee's     hand twisting right wrist . a reoccurence of same happened on 1/17/01 at 11:40pm company was informed of both accidents on 1/18/01
employee at job site watching turbine pump . employee felt something on his back thinks he was bitten by a spider although he never did see a spider . area became infected and he was seen at emergency room . 9 days later reported to supervisor 3/26/12 .
injured was riding in the back seat of the school bus when it trammed over a dip or rock in the road causing injured to be tossed up and out of his seat , landing back in his seat in the seated position   causing him lower back pain .
employee was using a ratchet and socket to remove a bolt from a v-belt guard to change v-belts . while pulling on the ratchet , the socket slipped off the bolt head . when this happened , his little finger ( pinky ) on his right hand struck the angle iron on the edge of the v-belt guard cutting it to the bone .
employee was putting up the 1st row of bolts in 5r . while installing the rib bolt the corner came off striking him in the left leg .
injured person was using a utility knife to cut plastic ties being used to hold glass cleaning station in place . after several attempts to cut through it finally cut through and his shoulder jerked   forward , causing injury .
employee strained his back while turning over hand rails to be sand blasted .
during hoisting , a switch malfunction allowed skip gate to get out of sequence and catch on crossmember support in headframe and caused slack rope that stopped hoist . after investigation , slack rope taken up , test run done , and all ok. no injuries .
stepped from haul truck , turned to leave and twisted right hip , strained right hip muscles . doctor prescribed muscle relaxant .
employee was pulling armored face conveyor chain back on the head drive when he felt pain in his stomach area . lost time injury reportable november 13 , 2006 .
employee was helping to tighten bolts on crusher when he turn and pull muscle in his back .
the employee got his right knee caught between the coal rib and a shuttle car cable . the employee worked until 1-31-00 without any problems with his knee . lost time began on 1-31-00. we were notified of the   injury on 2-1-00 .
employee was operating mantrip , pole came off of trolley wire . while trying to put pole back on wire , he struck his head on overcast .
employee was walking to restroom at the start of the shift and slipped on ice . he broke his wrist trying to catch himself when he fell .
injured riding on inby side of 15 man diesel mantrip . mantrip operator did not notice that 206 spur ( 9 south ) was thrown for turn , or motors were present and ran into the switch , striking a motor . injured struck head and left knee on interior of mantrip . no problem with mining methods , training , personal protective equipment , or compliance issues .
a roof fall was found on 2nd shift by the outby mine foreman in the southeast entries . spad # 2+70 in the cross-cut between number 4 and number 5 entries . the fall was 4' high x 17' wide x 35' long . it will not be cleaned up . 48 '' double lock roof bolts were used in the area .
the elevator at cook's branch was reported having a problem @ 10:09am that prevented it from operating properly . it was repaired and returned to service at 11:31am . the mine safety and health administration hotline was contacted .
employee was measuring a timber when the rib rolled striking him from behind and knocking him down .
employee was troubleshooting a ground fault on the lights on top of silo 4. conditions were windy and coal dust blew into his eyes , although he was wearing safety glasses at the time . he developed an   infection in the right eye lid and was prescribed antibiotics .
the employee was standing on the crusher operator platform when the loader dumped a load of rock into the hopper . a rock hit the side of the hopper causing a piece to break off which struck the employee on   the breast bone causing a small skin tear and a minute amount of bleeding .
employee was beside another worker who was using a hammer and a piece of metal from hammer flew into his eye . started missing work 9/26/2008 .
employee was struck in right eye by rock from passing equipment . rock deflected from underside of brim of hardhat and struck eye . lost 2 workdays .
employee `` independent contractor '' was working on welder . was checking for an antifreeze leak . disabled guard and got finger too close to the fan blade on welder , cut finger .
employee was removing picks on a 24h motorgrader with a 4 lb sledge hammer , when he felt pain in his upper back . he was given a full duty release on 08/04/2009 and then returned to the clinic on 08/09/2009 , with a muscle spasm . he was given restrictions for the rest of the day and given a full duty release on 08/10/2009 .
employees were putting up curtain boards when injured's buddy got drill steel stuck in top . he walked over and lifted up on board and freed up steel . his buddy then lowered drill pot down on his   left foot breaking big toe and next one down .
employee was operating miner . he then stepped back and tripped on miner cable and broke his right wrist .
while lifting a roll of cord onto loader , employee pulled lower back employee claims . he also advised this is pre-existing condition and he works another job . ( approximately 20 lbs )
employee was attempting to roll a rock , approximately   30 lbs , out of the roadway so light vehicle could pass by .
the employee was standing on a ladder , unplugging a hot clinker dust chute . when the material flushed the employee could not get out of the way . hot dust flowed across his boots causing 2nd degree burns   to the top of both feet .
gradually was sample prep , noticed something happening night back in 2001 nothing was ever documented verbally or written . moved up to fire assay lab it went away last 3 months this year have been in sample prep , more often wrist and hand got worse . numbing and hurting waking employee up during night
number 1 entry of mine cut through into 32 '' auger hole on left rib . auger hole work nut properly plotted on mine map . hole contained water , which had to be pumped .
injured stepped back away from the back of bolter and slipped when he stepped on trailing cable . he used his left arm to grab the rib drill x bar . '
the employee was loosening a bolt on a cylinder on a payloader when he hit his elbow .
employees were pulling wood and rocks from the raw coal crusher in an attempt to unclog it . the injured employee later experienced back pain which did not subside . he sought medical treatment for this on 2-11-05 .
employee was breaking , when he struck the wedge with his hammer , a shaving from the wedge broke off and cut his right forearm .
injured was washing under slope belt . when he turned the water on , the water rushing through the open nozzle on the 1 1/4 '' hose caused a sudden whipping action . this caused the hose end to strike   him on the left side of his face .
employee was checking the oil in our 7740 ford tractor . when he shut the hood it cut his small finger on his left hand . the hood closed down on his hand .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new future portal at the 9 west headgate belt entry number 3 , cross-cut 47,6970 west . the fall was approximately   20 ft long , approximately 15 ft wide , and approximately   10 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up .
he was lifting 25 lb bags which resulted in having a sore wrist .
type of support : 6 ' tension rebar . cover : approximately 200 ' , spad 6219. dimension : length 40 ' , width 16 ' , height 7 ' . see attached map . conditions contributing : high humidity causing detachment on roof support .
the employee was using a come-along and chain fall number   1 chokers where being used and it slipped . ( prescription medication ) .
employee was rerouting conduit . after moving conduit employee was attempting to clamp conduit when conduit slipped and pinched index finger he got left index finger caught between conduit and the handrail caused   laceration that required sutures .
employee filed for occupational pneumoconiosis on 9/19/00 . received notice 10/12/00 . claim number 20010103456 .
while investigating loud noise and excessive vibration from vsi crusher . a steel plate welded on chute broke loose and fell striking employee on head . call pipe was in use at time of accident .
a non injury roof fall occurred outby 22 north miner section mobile mining unit 002 , the fall measured 10' x 12' high 18 ft wide for 200 feet int he number 2 entry cross-cut   23 to 40 outby cross-cut   25 .
employee was driving stockpile truck at number 1 plant when complained of lower back pain . he believes that motion/ride of truck caused him to strain lower back . employee had seen a doctor but no conclusive results   were made . on 6-4-02 employee called in and said that he would not be in ( back was hurting ) and going to doctor's office . doctor says has abnormality called spondylosis . missed 1 day .
employee began displaying symptoms of post traumatic stress after he observed a fellow employee get his right hand amputated in a screw conveyor . employee is being treated by a psychiatrist and an employee assistance counselor .
roof bolter operator was inserting a bolt into a bolt hole . as the bolt was pushed in to the hole , it was being spun at a high rpm to mix the resin . after spinning for the required   time , the bolt   was thrust upward into the hole . as it went up , a spark was caused and a fist sized ball of flame was observed . it immediately extinguished itself location number   5 entry cross-cut , mobile mining unit - 001-0
injury was spinning the head of the cemco and other employee was using an air gun when his finger got stuck between the head of the cemco and the air gun socket .
a non-injury roof fall occurred on the 003 mobile mining unit during pillar recovery covering the joy continuous miner . the rock fell from the cut and did not pull permanent roof supports .
employee was grinding on a lifting eye with the shop bench grinder . he was wearing a face shield with his glasses on . he felt a piece of metal bounce into his eye . he flushed it but it still bothered   him . the doctor found eye irritated by no debris still in it . employee returned to work the same day .
this employee attempted to move and set a shield by remote means . the shield appears to have set by the auto-set function . the side seal was over lapped and the side seal came off striking the employee .
employee was cleaning on to the excavator and his foot slipped off of the step . the employee was holding onto the railing and was supporting his body weight with arms until able to place foot onto step again . the next day employee reported groin pain . on 9/14/00 employee was diagnosed with a hernia .
during the morning start-up the production hoist kicked out . it was reset and moved , but then kicked out again . the hoist then could not be restarted because of an overloaded motor lead . an evacuation was called at 5:25 am because of loss of the secondary escapeway . mine safety and health administration emergency notification was called at 5:29 am .
a roof fall measuring 18 ' long , 18 ' wide , and 7.5 ' was discovered 7680 ' from the active section in the number 5 entry inby ss 3195 the old number 8 belt entry . permanent roof supports installed were 4 ' resin bolts . no injuries occurred from the fall . the fall did not affect ventilation , equipment or the travelway .
while employee was cutting a piece of rubber belt with a razor knife the knife slipped cutting employee's right leg .
employee was on the surface using a shovel to clean off stacker belt , while shoveling he twisted his body causing injury to himself that resulted in a hernia . employee continued to work doing regular duties   until his surgery was scheduled . first day off work was janiary 22,01 .
employee was tightening a rod with a 36 '' pipe wrench . he somehow hit the rotation lever either fell into it or hit it with the pipe wrench causing his hand to get pinned between the wrench and the drill head motor
employee injured left leg and ankle when left rib rolled while operating roof bolter . he worked his next 4 scheduled days and missed work on 1/12/05 , his first scheduled day not worked .
injured employee was holding a large t bolt in place with his right hand while another employee was tightening it with an impact wrench . the bolt shifted , pinching his right   middle finger between the t bolt and the housing causing a small laceration to his middle finger . sutures were required .
employee stated that he felt a sharp pain in his groin when lifting a sample and twisting to load into a truck . he did not report the injury until 1/8/08 . the company and the workers compensation carrier investigated and determined that the injury was compensable on 2/27/08 .
member was taking down a roof bolter cable he was standing on top of the machine he lost his balance falling to the ground landing on his right side fracturing his ribs . he never quit working went to hospital where he was diagnosed with 2 broken ribs and allowed to return back to his job
was assisting in loading a 15 gallon drum of oil into service truck . as he and another worker lifted the drum onto the truck tailgate , it fell causing the drum to cut his finger . the tailgate legs were in contact with the truck bumper , but slipped and drum started to fall off . he still had his hand under the drum which cut his finger as it started to fall . 3 stitches to close wound .
while installing engine in a d8r . the threads pulled off a bolt on a lifting eye causing chain to strike employee on the top of the head .
employee picked up ore sample in 5 gal bucket to bring to lab . bucket was fuller than usual and was very heavy . employee tried to use one hand , but couldn't lift the bucket . then employee used both hands to lift bucket . a day later , employee felt pain in shoulder . employee returned to regular duty . on may 22 , he was unable to work . doctor determined it to be result of 4/22/07 incident .  
employee attempted to close the door on a rail car but it did not latch properly . the employee moved awkwardly to get out of the way and felt pain in his lower back .
the employee was tightening lugs on a piece of equipment . while applying a great amount pressure to torque to specs , the wrench came loose and the employee slipped to the ground and the wrench went into the air . the wrench fell down , striking the employee in the forehead . the employees hard hat and safety glasses fell off when he slipped to the ground .
while setting down on a transmission of a 777 , employee reached to get a ( pick up ) 17 lb short drive and sprained his arm . ( elbow )
while replacing a piece of pvc line , employee twisted his back .
employee was mounting backhoe when back foot slipped on pile of material , causing employee to overextend pulling muscle in groin . poor ground condition and rain where backhoe was parked contributed to accident . in attempt to save time employee used poor judgement on stability of step he was using to mount backhoe . employee placed on light duty 7/19/05 .
employee was operating a scraper . employee was hauling rock to dump area . while unloading , the impact of the machine running over rocks caused twisting and straining of the employee's stomach muscles .
injured was washing at the bottom of the dump/slope belt . material being washed consisted of pumpable crib material that had been mined on the previous shift . the hardening agent of the cribs caused chemical burns to the lower legs .
off duty employees traveling in private vehicle collided with another vehicle on mine access road . two employees sustained injuries including multiple contusions , abrasions , bruising and fractures to leg .
unloading screens out of a jon boat and the wind caught the screen .
employee was working on cover over dodge coupling when a piece of metal struck his right   hand .
employee was moving angle iron from a rock he felt something pull however , he thought it was a pulled muscle . he notified us on 2/21/02 . he has a hernia
employee slipped and fell . he caught himself with outstretched arm , dislocating shoulder .
employee had positioned crib block under gathering pot . pan was being raised up and down on crib block . trying to break gathering pot loose . employee reached in to re-position crib block when pan was let down on his left thumb , break and laceration to left thumb .
while attempting to loosen an oil filter under a 993 loader , employee strained his neck . employee went to the doctor on 2/20/2015 and the doctor put him on restricted duty . note : employee went to doctor on 3/13/15 and the doctor took him off work beginning 3/13/15 .
associate felt ill while operating mobile equipment and called for help . other associates arrived to help . associate went into cardiac arrest and cpr was performed as well as automated external defibrillator unit used until paramedics arrived . associate was stable when taken to hospital . associate later passed away on sunday , october 25th .
employee was welding off and on all day on a jaw crusher , doing repairs . he was wearing a welding helmet , but he was in a tight spot , so it was difficult to get the mask down in time , every time , before he started welding . he had welding flash as a result .
the area was being rock dusted with the employee being inby . when the employee tried to walk outby he tripped and fell on his left shoulder . employee worked until 7-20-09 , surgery will be done for a torn tendon .
employee stated that he was putting 3-wheeler on charge when his foot got caught between miner cable and high line cable . employee turned but his foot was caught and didn't turn with him . ( questioning injury ) another employee was listed as a witness , but employee stated that he didn't see anything .
number 2 hoist would not release the left brake . mine safety and health administration hotline called approximately   6:45 pm . `` mine safety and health administration '' returned the call and instructed the mine to call when the hoist was repaired . he was called approximately   10:05 pm . electricians found a defective proportional valve control and replaced . the mine had access at all times to two routes of travel and escape via our number 1 hoist and number 2 skips .
employee was lifting a 480 power cable for a grasshopper conveyor and his feet slipped and he felt a pull in his lower back . employee felt the pain would go away and did for several days and then on 3/27 it became   worse so he requested to see a doctor
employee was climbing steps on a komatsu end loader and employee's footing slipped and employee fell .
employee started air conditioner unit and a piece of debris flew out and hit him in right eye . due to the fact the employee was in an enclosed cab , he was not required to wear safety glasses .
hanging line curtain in number 7 entry next to roof bolter , when rock fell between roof bolts and struck employee on right thigh above right knee .
while attempting to lift surge bin door for repairs , 2nd hinge broke , causing door to fall . in employee's attempt to catch door ( to prevent it from striking another employee ) his right hand - ring finger was smashed . finger was fracture and employee returned to work with restricted duty limitations , the next work day .
un-lugged 80 lb steel rail from ties and was moving it over with a slate bar when he felt pain in his back . he continued to work until 5-25-05 .
a roof fall occurred at cross-cut 12 , entry number 4 secondary escapeway , main north off of the main west . fall is 16' long x 18' wide x 6' high . supported with 6 ' point anchor bolts . fall will be cleaned up and resupported . secondary escapeway has been rerouted .
roof fall in number 2 entry 80 ' inby spad number 550 . 20 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' . no injuries .
employee stepped off the diesel mantrip into 4-5 '' of water near spad 260 at the elevator and twisted his right ankle . this is to report medical treatment in the form of orthopedic immobilization . ( crutches/cane and ankle splint )
the employee was dismounted a d-9n when his foot pivoted to the right and he felt a burning sensation to his lower back .
employee misjudged the single step along a walkway and fell which resulted in a laceration to his right palm and required sutures to close .
employee stated that he was carrying a tool bag while walking around a motor that was off track . while walking his knee gave out .
have a hose shoved into a 4 inch driscoplex to get it unclogged , rocks and material blew into face when it became unclogged . unsure if material or driscoplex struck forehead causing a laceration . ( 5 stitches required )
while standing and talking with another employee , employee fainted
employee was driving a pin into a belt drive chain , when a small piece of metal came out and lodged into his left eye .
the injured person was climbing down from the rigid/stationary scaffolding , misstepped and fell 3-4 ' to the concrete floor , resulting injury to his left kneecap , hand and right ankle .
injured was in maintenance trainee program and was making a splice on 24 shuttle car cable in st leo rehabilitation area . while hitting beat block with bit hammer ( to crimp wires together ) , the hammer glanced off and struck employee's left thumb resulting in a fracture of the distal joint in the phalange and a laceration that required 9 sutures to close .
employee stated that he tripped over the shuttle car cable and injured his left leg
employee was assisting with welding . complaints of eye irritation . maxitrol administered .
employee was using pry bar attempting to unchoke chute when pry bar slipped smashing finger against chute
the bucket of the hitachi 700 loaded with rock slammed into the back of the haul truck and jarred the truck severely
a roof fall was discovered at 1:35 pm at cross-cut 8 between number 2 and number 3 entries of 8 south . the fall measured approximately 20 ft long , 20 ft wide and 6 to 7 ft high . the fall did not impede ventilation or escapeways .
delivering safety glasses to employee and impact crusher medal in eye .
employee was working on the jaw crusher in prospect . he was putting a cover from the crusher down when a bolt on the cover hit the index finger on his right hand . the employee pulled his hand back towards him in pain which caused the cover to take the skin off of his finger from the middle of the finger to the tip .
employee hit conveyor flight with hammer and a piece of metal hit employee in the face , his right cheek .
employee , maintenance mechanic , began welders training on 11-26-01. actual welding of materials is part of the training . on 12-14-01 , he had welded two pieces of plate . he was using a wheel grinder   to remove excess slag from the weld . a piece of slag flew underneath his face shield and caused eye irritation . medication prescribed . employee is not losing time or on restrictions .
the employee was struck by a 4 '' beam that was on the number 2 trailing shield when the number 1 trailing shield struck the beam while it was advancing forward . that is when the employee was struck by the beam .
employee had been adjusting a bracket at the top of the drill boom , as he stepped onto the drill cab he slipped on the oily cab surface and bruised his left rib cage area . employee worked 3/9/02 and reported off on 3/11/02 . employer was not notified until 3/11/02 .
lifting anfo bags on to powder rig trailer , employee felt a pain in his back .
employee was climbing a ladder to a screen to perform maintenance and lost his grip and fell backwards . the fall resulted in lacerations to the employee's head and lower leg . the employee was placed on modified duty on october 13th and returned to full duty on october 17th .
employee stated his right leg muscle started hurting and hurt worse as the shift went on .
the employee was bringing the mine loader to the office area . as he bent down , he slipped on the stairs and fell on them . the employee feels lots of pain in his lower back side and his right leg .
employee was climbing up a ladder and hit his knee
maintenance mechanic reports both left and right shoulder hurt . employee had surgery in 1976 on one and 1987 on the other one .
employee was picking up the buckets on solid waste derived fuels conveyor belt .
employee stated while jacking the rail over the jack flew out causing the jack bar he had a hold of to strike him on forehead .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the old 2c panel return at station 72+95 entry # 6. the fall did not affect ventilation , passage of men or cause personal injury . the fall measured 20' x 20' x 6'high . it will not be cleaned up .
injured   walked up sandy slope and fell in loose sand spraining left knee and dislocating left patella . traveled to medical clinic - x-rays were negative . follow-up has included an mri and orthopedist visit . orthopedist indicated that mri showed bone bruising and torn ligament associated with left patella . suggested rehabilitation on own and follow-up visit in 2 weeks .
employee was getting onto the mantrip to travel into the mine when he slipped and hit his left foot on the rib .
employee was using a lifting jack to put a supply motor back on the track and strained his back while applying pressure to the jack handle . employee worked regular duties until he sought medical attention on april 8 , 2010 and was taken off work .
employee's neck and shoulder was hurting from picking up auto tires with right arm and placing them on the tire conveyer .
employee was operating the number 2 roof bolter . employee was on the helper side , he turned around scraping his left forearm on a bolt plate cutting his arm .
employee has hearing loss under south dakota workers compensation . employee laid off due to mine closure .
employee states while moving portable heater he felt pain in right side of chest . we do not feel this is a work-related incident . ( atrial fibrillation ; blood clot on heart . )
employee went to use blow off station . when he turned on the toggle switch it shorted out causing the employee to receive an electrical shock and burns to his right   thumb .
while using cutting torch hot material landed on table where he was resting his arm the steady the torch . it burned through his clothing causing 2nd degree burns to elbow . went to urgent care where   they cut away skin and applied ointment and bandages .
employee was replacing a defective door handle on the change room door . as he pulled the assembly apart a sharp piece of the mechanism cut the palm of his left hand . the laceration was just below the index finger and required five ( 5 ) sutures to close
employee was removing a rotary sub to put the hammer sub onto drill . when he was winching sub out , the sub caught the end of the drill steel and tightened the winch line up causing rotary sub to pop out of deck , hitting the employee smashing his left hand against the carousel on drill .
3 east mains section at number 6 overcast - during construction of the overcast employee was helping another employee to lay cinder blocks . he felt pain in his lower back while lifting a cinder block .
employee was loading conveyor belt on a belt car and was using clamp ( rope dog ) to pull on the belt . the clamp slipped off the belt , causing an injury to his left shoulder . possible rotary cup damage to shoulder . he started missing work from this incident 09/07/2010 .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st south panel 2 at spad 4+00 in number 5 entry measuring 40 foot long by 18 foot wide by approximately 9 foot high . the area was bolted with 9 foot cable bolts and 5 foot fully grouted bolts .
employee was palletizing sandstone when he sustained pain in the right groin area . he was unable to work that day . the injury was not reported to his supervisor until 6:30 am on monday , 9/27/04 . employee was sent to the doctor 9/27 and was released to perform light duty until next appointment   in 2 weeks . ( 11/2/04 : employee saw surgeon ; will have hernia surgery in near future . )
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
a mantrip was traveling outby on the 2a at the end of their working shift . a scoop was traveling inby with a slinger duster attached to the front of the bucket . the mantrip was coming down a hill and hit the scoop causing numerous injuries to the employees in the mantrip .
a fall has occurred 9 breaks inby number 15 head drive and 90 feet inby survey spad # 3947. fall is in number 8 entry , no effect on travel or ventilation , props set around fall area and dangered off . fall discovered at 10:20 am . fall is 110 feet long by 20 feet wide and 5 to 6 feet high .
employee stuck his truck in the fill area . in helping the dozer operator hook the tow cable he twisted his left knee .
employee states while doing duties he developed pain in his left hand and thumb . went to hospital , x-ray that was taken fails to demonstrate a fracture . however there appears to be a spur on the navicular part of the bone . thumb spica has created immobilization .
employee was assisting with excavation of new area for test drilling . coworker was operating excavator and hit a 35 ' pine tree , breaking it near ground . tree fell , striking employee on hard hat and knocking him unconscious . coworkers called for assistance ; employee regained consciousness and was airlifted to hospital for further observation . employee was released from hospital at noon on 3/10/05 .
employee was cutting hole in 5 gallon plastic bucket , when the blade of the razor knife broke and he pulled the blade across the palm of his right hand . required 8 sutures to close .
employee was using a chain to tie up a rock by the jaw . hook slipped and employee hit chest area into catwalk rail , straining muscle .
employee was preparing to weld a dm45 drill jack pad on the bottom of the jack . he was moving the pad closer to the drill when he felt pain in his lower back . employee continued to work until 4/17/13 when he sought medical attention for pain in his back and leg . the doctor took him off work until 4/24/13 .
supervisor was checking operation of automatic sampler . while holding the retractable rod connecter to the sample container his hand was pulled towards the opening . given the manner he was grasping the rod , thumb pointing towards opening the sampler pulled his hand into the side injuring his thumb of right   hand . initial first aid indicates possible stitches only .
mashed thumb between pivot points of motor base , when loading it on crane . mashed thumb nail cut open skin above thumb nail . went to hospital doctor deadened thumb and inserted six stitches . burnt   two holes in nail to relieve pressure . back at work - 11:00 am .
employee was operating fuel truck when he reached over to get material from seat lost control and drove into a ditch . the truck turned slightly onto its side . the employee was not wearing seat belt and struck top of his head , resulting in a laceration requiring seven staples .
31b concentrate reject conveyor became over loader with chunks . employee had to climb into discharge chute and toss out frost chunks . had to reenter chute and misjudged distance and fractured .
employee was off work due to sickness . employee later came back and said workers compensation had ruled him being off was comparable from pulling on racket , tightening bolt on final drive of dozer , hurt right   side . we thought he was off sick is the reason for late report .
employee was walking down the ramp to the number 2 cooler pit to repair a water pump . he slipped fall back onto another miner bumping his right elbow on the concrete floor .
while stringing high voltage cable , the cable fell and hit employee in back causing bruising and a strain . employee has been off work since occurrence but is hoping to be finished with physical therapy and go back to work in a few more days .
roof fall , 2 west entry number 5 cross-cut 34 , straight across from fall in number 7 entry , 30' x 40' x 12' high , already cribbed and dangered off , before it fell , known bad top
walked back to the spud to put sand on it . stepped on the man hole cover and it gave way . employee fell through and right knee hit the side of the man hole .
100 % disabled due to pneumoconiosis .
employee slipped and fell in a mud hole as he walked around the rear of the parts sled . lost time injury as of november 17 .
a roof fall 120 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' thick occurred 200 ' inby spad number 4326 in the bleeder system . the area was bolted with 4 ' fully grouted roof bolts . the area is taking pressure due to undermining .
employee was bolting in number 3 heading around 1:15 pm . employee was attempting to push a roof bolt into the top when employee's bolt wrench kicked out of drill pot and struck employee's left hand .
employee hit right shoulder on rib on 1/6/07 . worked until he had surgery on 4/6/07 .
employee was opening a set of air-lock equipment doors located at number 24 cross-cut along the main east haulage roadway . he was standing against the north rib when a piece of rock 10 '' x 10 '' x 4 '' thick fell   our from between the rib and permanent roof supports . the rock struck him on the head and neck   causing sprain/strain injury to his cervical spine .
employee was knocked down by the air rush from a pillar fall .
while removing a piece of rebar from screen chute as he was lifting and turning the rebar caught screen stopping his motion causing him to feel a pain in his back .
the employee was standing on a 41 '' high conveyor frame using a torch to remove the walkway and handrails . the frame was positioned on the ground . while the employee was repositioning himself his foot slipped off the structure and went under one of the cross members . employee fell backwards , was upside down by 1 leg . employee sprained ankle and severe contusion to lower leg/sprained hip .
employee had backed rock truck in to be loaded when a large rock rolled out of the spoil pile and struck the truck on the left rear tire . employee was thrown into steering wheel and door , injuring his right   shoulder .
as an employee was exiting the admin building , they tripped and fell . the employee felt pain in their left wrist . on 8-26-13 it was determined the the employee's wrist was fractured .
employee was lowering a slab of sandstone to the ground when he pinched his left middle finger between ground and the stone slab . doctor diagnosis : laceration and contusion left middle finger . employee lost 3 work days .
while trying to clean right side mirror of haul truck number 3 , employee slipped and fell about 57 in . to the ground . the right side step had been removed for repair and instead of using a ladder to get to the mirror , employee tried to walk across the haul truck's front bumper and a set of chock blocks . employee stepped on a chock block , which moved , and employee fell .
an unintentional fire occurred at the mine rescue building , the building was a complete loss . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8442550 ) , was issued by mine safety and health administration inspector .
employee was carrying a crib block and tripped over another crib block laying on the mine floor . cause of injury was awareness and keeping walkways clear . compliance with rules/regulations was not a factor . personnel equipment/items not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
the employee was shoveling accumulations from the walkway onto the main north belt as he was shoveling the shovel hit the mine roof then struck the ( top ) moving belt pushing the shovel into his chest and twisting his right shoulder .
carried vibrator up the stairs to baghouse 2 and placed it on the beam by hopper 2. relocate himself to the other side of the opening and lifted it off the beam . felt a `` pop '' in his back .
a roof fall occurred in the main west . the fall is located at 31 cross-cut intersection , number 5 entry . the fall measures 40 feet long , 16 feet 6 inches wide , and 10 feet high .
employee was riding on a mantrip when they ran over a rock or hit a hole in the roadway and he twisted his back .
hit left index finger with sledge hammer , taking a steering cylinder off haul truck
the number 8 elevator stopped within 12 inches of the top landing with one passenger on the car . the car showed overspeed fault . the rope gripper set and locked the car out on fault . the passenger was stuck for 5 minutes . the car was reset and tested . the agencies were notified . the elevator returned to service at 3:45am
employee was pulling a strainer basket out of the feed pump filter pot when his right shoulder popped . he felt a sharp pain .
injured employee was roof bolting on the left side of the continuous miner on the 1 north mains section . he states he was struck by the atrs pad causing him to be knocked into the machine resulting in a bruise to his right knee . this incident was not deemed reportable until 7/15/2013 .
victim was standing between roof bolter and roofbolter cable and when the cable reel was engaged the cable jerked and knocked him into the frame of the machine .
employee was assisting two other employees with the removal of a cleanout door on the discharge side of a 10 '' pump , in an attempt to unplug the line . they were not aware that there was a buildup of hot water and steam in the pipe behind the door . as he was removing the bolts , the door broke free and the sudden escape of steam and water burned the employee on the left forearm .
employee was reaching behind his seat for his hard hat when he claims to have slid his finger along a piece of plywood and a sliver of the wood became lodged under his fingernail . he was examined two days following the incident , the finger was injected with anesthetic and the sliver was removed .
employee stepped down from a loader into a hole in the ground causing him to twist his ankle and fall . contributing factors were that the employee did not check the ground condition before stepping   off the machine and an uneven surface condition . injury involves sprained ankle with torn ligaments .
had an unintentional roof fall in main west return at cross-cut 4 . did not impede travel or affect ventilation . was reported to mine safety and health administration at 9:00pm
employee was leaving supervisor's office walking towards service room employee slipped on icy area and fell
going to number 2 cooler pit to obtain sample lime got in eyes causing irritation
employee was using a permanent installed 240 volt cutoff saw to cut 1 '' cold roll round bar . as he was cutting final piece as the blade of the saw mad final penetration of the metal the rod kicked back   and the sharp edge struck number 4 and number 5 fingers on left hand . ( 11 total stitches )
employee mashed his right thumb by the cam shaft inside the gearbox when the boom was raised on the 9196 roof bolter . this required 6 stitches .
employee was using a hammer and screwdriver to split a bolt ring from a plug . he missed the screwdriver and struck his left thumb . medical treatment injury .
employee was pulling a concrete come-along to remove clinker spillage . he was on both knees as close to his work as he could get . he had been working in this location for approximately one hour when he felt a pain in his abdomen . he reported it to his supervisor and to first aid station .
employee inadvertently stepped in front of number 14 shield as it was advancing and caught his right foot between the shield toe and relay bar and fell forward jamming his left shoulder . diagnosed with a hairline fracture to the 3rd metatarsal .
employee loaded his tool box on jeep and felt back pain . man was seen at occupational health a few days later and has worked restricted duty since . he is scheduled for an mri this week , 1/4/10 . accident not reported till 12/7/09 .
employee claims that he pulled a muscle in his lower back when he lifted a 50 lb bag of lime from the bag weight scale . he declined to seek medical treatment at the time of the incident . he was seen at pro med clinic on 6/3/03 and released to light duty .
patient was cutting a tree and when it fell it made contact with another tree causing 1st tree to kick back knocking employee down and pinning him to the ground . employer freed employee and transported him to logan   general hospital by private vehicle . patient did not receive any on scene emergency medical technician treatment .
employee was changing rigging on a box beam that was to be carried to hoisting bay . beam was lowered to floor by rough terrain fork lift . beam rested on rods through the beam holding anvil beams . the box beam slipped 1 '' to 2 '' on the rods resulting in pinch point between the shackle and box beam . tip of employees right index finger was pinched requiring 4 stitches .
roof fall in northwest mains number 2 entry ( 2 breaks inby spad number 130 ) measuring 5 ' thick x 100 ' long x 16 ' wide .
employee was stockpiling sand with a 980 loader . he felt a pain his back . he reported to his supervisor but did not want medical help . on 5/12/08 he went to the hospital with back pains . he was placed off work . our insurance carrier investigated to make sure it was a work compensation . case . geological remote sensing group had personal changes and overlooked the time to file .
employee was removing rocks from the belt of the crusher . his left hand struck a piece of sharp metal , causing laceration .
a rock was lodged between the tailgate and the bed of the truck . pulled the locking pin , the bolder dislodged and tailgate dropped . he thought his hand was clear of the latch , but it was not . skin on right finger was torn , and required stitches to repair . no days lost . came right back to work the same day after repair .
during blood lead level testing it was revealed that employee blood lead was 54 .
employee was drilling test hole and laid his hand on boom of roof bolter and raised the boom up catching his right   2nd finger on the right   hand .
employee slipped and felt pain in left knee .
employee was cutting a 24 inch i beam with a torch . he backed up so another employee could knock it apart with a cat 318 c ln excavator with shear attachment . when the other employee hit the beam it kicked up and fell on employee's leg .
employee was using hammer to strike metal strap to take sleeve off a pipe . employee struck his left thumb causing a laceration which required stitches .
roof fall at spad number 22512 , 3 breaks outby in intake . break 20 of old 6 f belt . this fall is a continuation of one in return . it was bolted with 6 ' torque-tension bolts . fall was approximately   90 ' x 80 ' x 7 ' thick and will not be cleaned up . fall is approximately   2,525 ' from face of number 001 section . this fall was reported by fire boss .
employee was operating/driving a forklift to the laydown yard . while in route a bee flew under his safety glasses and stung him in the right cornea of his eye causing an ulcerated infection .
employee stated employee was shoveling material onto the belt when employee felt a pop in the right shoulder . employee sought medical attention on 1-30-2018 and was placed off work .
while remounting an electric motor onto the screener , were positioning the motor when it fell off the screener hitting employee and sliding down his body as he fell on the floor .
a dozer operator was pushing coal cleanings into a berm in a drilling and blasting area . while backing to reposition , the operator misjudged her distance from the crest and backed off the highwall . the dozer fell approximately 33 feet onto a slough pile . the operator was diagnosed with one ruptured disc .
a fully trained miner was unloading a jack from a man bus when employee caught finger between the bus and the jack resulting in 5 stitches . the accident was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
employee stated he was building a crib along the track . while building this crib he turned to pick up his ax . this action caused him to turn his left ankle and knee .
employee was bolting when he started drilling a hole a piece of rock broke loose catching his little finger between the rock and the drillpot .
torquing bolts on push blade when fingers were caught between the blade and the actuator for the pneumatic torque wrench causing fracture and laceration requiring stitches to two fingers .
employee was dragging screen down the longwall face when he felt pain in lower abdomen . he sought medical treatment on 6-1-05 .
was operating fletcher rr2 roof bolter when a rock of approximately   10 lbs   fell out off roof and hit injured in left hand and fingers cutting big middle finger needing stitches .
employee was handing block to another employee when he slipped on the slick mine floor and strained his back .
operator left cat d8n dozer to speak to another operator in trackhoe . he was standing near pile of dirt and trackhoe when approximately 55 gallon looking clump of dirt rolled from pile striking left side   , hip area resulting in left pelvic fracture and abrasions to left arm .
the deskins   b   shaft automatic elevator would not operate due to loose wire to the regulator .
employee and coworkers were installing heat exchanger chain in rotary cement kiln . employee complained of discomfort due to tight , sore back muscles , allegedly from handling the heavy chain strands . he was seen by a physician and released to return to work with no restrictions . on his own volition , he took one day off from work .
step off of excavator on lo-lo   boy and rolled ankles .
employee claimed that he hit a rut while operating his shuttle car causing an injury to his lower back , hip area . the employee did not report the injury to his foreman during his shift - called in the next day before his shift started .
a roof fall occurred on # 3a belt in the number 3 entry outby spad # 1110. the size of the fall was approximately   90 ft long 20 ft wide and 4 ft high . the area was developed approximately   1970 and rebolted in 1996 . the fall was approximately   7000 ft from active face .
employee . was removing side liners on number 4 loesche mill ( raw mill ) seal with 8mm allen wrench . while loosening bolt , wrench slipped causing employee . right   hand to strike edge of mill roll . laceration approximately   3 '' long required 14 stitches .
employee was lifting a barrel of grease to the back of the buggy . the dump bed of the buggy was not latched so the bed lifted , dumping the barrel of grease onto employee's right shin and foot . skinned the shin , required three stitches .
employee stopped his truck to give a miner a hand lining up vent pipe . as he stepped up on the scoop he slipped . he then turned and jumped to the ground .
employee became ill while weighing customer trucks . 911 was called immediately , mine safety and health administration number was also called . employee was transported to iredell hospital , was diagnosed with 2 tumors on his brain . the tumors triggered a seizure which is what employee suffered in the quarry office . this is not a reportable injury however we are reporting because we called the 800 number as a precaution .
employee was lifting his tailgate on his truck it slipped out of his hand striking his right knee . he started missing work on 10/20/05 .
employee was working on broken hanger on kiln 1 east fine screw . damper was not closed and air caused clinker dust to be blown into left eye .
internal audit found need to report . while walking employee slipped on some material he caught himself on handrail however twisted his ankle doing so .
roof fall was discovered by th air coarse examiner in old 4 east x number 2 between 1 - 2 room outby 1 cross-cut and between 2-3 room at the 1st cross-cut and out by 1 cross-cut   . area was bolted with 6.5 bolts 3 piece and 8 ' cable bolts . the fall was above the bolt anchorage . the area is being secured by cribbing and timber and abandoned .
the employee reported the following alleged incident . he and another miner were lifting a spool . while lifting , he claims that he strained a muscle in his shoulder . did not report the incident for 4 days . the following were not a factor : rules , regulations , mining equip or systems , protective devices on equip or clothing , skills , proficiency or training . attitude may have been a factor .
in 14th west pillar section in the number 5 entry a roof fall occurred at approximately 12:45 pm . it fell 18 ' wide x 31 ' long x 6 ' high . 5 ' resin bolts were installed during development . the cave buried two mobile roof supports . there were no injuries . two mine safety and health administration inspectors had been in the section observing mining prior to the fall .
mechanics were working on a continuous miner , using a sledge hammer and a driving bar . employee walked beside the work area . hammer glanced off bar striking man above right eye .
loading the anfo from the magazine into the shot truck , the bag slipped out of coworker's hands coming down on employee's left arm .
this 7000-1 is being submitted in response to citation number 7116747 issued on 7/10/12 . following an investigation , the operator is not in agreement with mine safety and health administration that an immediately reportable methane ignition occurred . while preforming routine cutting / welding operations on the 19a tailgate shearer drum near shield number 22 , a small fire occurred which was immediately extinguished .
employee and coworkers were replacing drag conveyor chain . employee used his hand to align a length of chain and felt his left index finger pinched . he suffered a bone fracture .
while descending the conveyer tunnel at the calciner he tripped over his foot jamming his wrist , knuckle of small finger on right hand ( bruised ) .
employee was working in muddy conditions and strained his upper left leg . note : this injury was reported on 2-13-01 at the end of shift . examining doctor diagnosed and restricted duty on 2-14-01 .
employee was hosing down in the autoclave , she slipped on the wet floor and fell , landing on right knee , left knee hyperextended . employee felt pain in left knee . referred to orthopedist and was put restricted duty and an mri is ordered .
employee was cutting a coupler in half with a band saw , he turned the saw on and the blade caught and kicked up . when it kicked up , it came down and cut the employee's finger .
unplanned roof fall occurred in submains   a   panel off of 1st northwest panel break number 4. fall was approximately 25 ' in length x 19 ' wide x 14 ' to 16 ' high . date of development was may 2009. no injuries , entrapment or equipment involved .
employee was attempting to open the door on powder truck he reached down with his left hand for the doorhandle but didn't pull hard enough to open the door . he then reached with his right hand for the   bottom corner of door and pulled as he held the handle with his left hand and when he pulled his right hand was very near exhaust guard his hand struck the guard causing a laceration
the employee was demoing some ( rigid metal conduit ) ridid metal conduit during a weekend shutdown . the employee used tru tape to support one end of the conduit while he cut a strap loose with a reciprocating saw . the tru tape broke , causing the rigid metal conduit to fall on one end and the other end to raise up catching his arm between the rigit metal conduit and a angle iron brace cutting left arm .
during employee shift on 4/9 he was jarred while being loaded by the shovel . he called his supervisor to report the incident , but did not want to be taken in . on 4/10 during the shift employee reported to his supervisor that he was experiencing some tenderness and discomfort in his neck . he also staed that he wanted to be taken in to be check . he was taken to the clinic . he wa taken off work
pressure from abutment caused a section of the entry on the longwall tailgate to close . distance was approximately   5' in length . this blocked access of tailgate . immediate roof material .
holding drill steel while drilling top , when a piece of draw rock fell striking his right   hand .
employee was trying to stop the shuttle car and he caught his right foot between the shuttle car frame and rib .
the hoistman checking overtravel shutoffs when the overtravel ( at mine level ) not reset . overtravel on lilly controller still operable . electrician went underground , reset the magnetic overtravel switch by running magnet over the switch , it worked fine from then on . there was no damage , physical or electrical and the hoist was put back in regular operation at 5:00pm .
employee had the inspection door raised over the hydraulic tank in the upright position . a gust of wind blew the door down and struck him on the tip of his middle finger on left hand crushing and breaking the bone in the tip of his finger .
employee was pulling on a pry-bar and felt pain in shoulder .
power outage causing lsi belt to stop . gate valve failed to close which caused the lsi belt to start on fire from the heat from the kiln .
number 3 top station - employee was attempting to align an empty powder truck with the conveyance to load it , slid the truck around by grabbing and moving with his hands . unaware the forks of the lift truck were close . employee caught `` right '' hand between powder truck and fork on forklift . laceration ( 4 sutures ) to back of `` right '' hand .
2:55am employee was short of breath with chest discomfort . 9ll was called and 3:30am ambulance arrived onsite . 3:45am we received a call that another ems responder was on the way . at this point we knew the situation was life threatening and mine safety and health administration was notified at 3:56am . by 6:30am we were informed of the employee's death .
associate was rebuilding a pallet - twisted - felt something in the back muscle . did not report as work related . doctor asked for more information on 8/24/04 and stated it was work related - a severe muscle pull - requested an mri which occurred on 9/2/04 . waiting on results from that .
employee was walking alongside the railroad track to the next car when he stumbled in the sand . employee tried to stop his fall by stretching out his arms. when he landed he fractured his wrist .
employee was stacking bags on pallet , when he hurt his lower back monday , did not ask to go to the doctor till thursday 8-16-07 .
employee was operating a 777c rock truck . he got out of truck and walked to the back of truck to check suspension cylinder . the ground was snow covered and frozen , his feet slipped and he fell on his right   shoulder .
employee was letting down basket in change room , when he looked up , mud and dirt in basket fell into right eye . employee was taken to company doctor and prescribed an antibiotic , making this reportable .
while unloading bolts and plates out of a scoop bucket onto the bolter , employee picked up 5 to 6 bolts took one step back into a hole forcing his left knee backward . note : operations were idl e from 12/21/02 through 1/2/03 . report is within 10 day limit .
injured and another employee were changing valves on the bottom of the middle low pressure heaters . the middle valve is the one they were working on when the wedge that was being installed flew out and hit employee's head . he was wearing the proper personal protective equipment . he was taken to medical dept . then to st. james hospital . he received 12 stitches and returned to work with restrictions .
employee was attempting to remove a piece of rock that had gotten lodged in the dolly . the rock fell onto the employee's thumb smashing it between the rock and a piece of steel .
employee filed for hearing loss . received notice 10/9/00
employee was working on a pump . the impeller was full of material . employee was using a pipe wrench to work the pump back and forth to free impeller . employee didn't report this until 10/22/01 . saw chiropractor .
injured employee was tying in a ramp on the spoil side . injured employee was moving from north to south on spoil side . injured employee felt the ground give away dozer started to slide . injured employee immediately lowered the blade , dozer continued to slide and eventually rolled over coming to a rest on the tracks . injured employee removed seatbelt and dismounted dozer emergency response team members arrived on scene and transported to hospital for examination
roof fall b entry , 2.5 south c @ @ @ 18+75 . approximately 30 ' long x 25 ' wide and 14' high . gray shale and sandstone .
we know of no conditions that contributed to an occupational illness ( employee's physician had diagnosed interstitial lung disease which he believed to be consistent with silicosis , although company   disputes this due to lack of exposure to silica on the job site ) .
electricity from our power company had dropped out a couple of times throughout the morning . each time all power was reset . at 10:30am the power dropped again , but the koepe hoist took longer to reset/recover . employees were evacuated from the mine via the production hoist . koepe was operational at 12:30 pm .
roof bolter operator was spinning a roof bolt to mix the resin . the bolt plate struck or rubbed against the steel mat and caused heat or sparks . the bolter helper observed a yellowish flame th at lasted an estimated 4 seconds . the operator did not see the flame . work was stopped and the scene secured . mine safety and health administration was notified . an investigation began when mine safety and health administration inspectors arrived .
pulling tailpiece with scoop . chain broke , hitting employee in chest and shoulder .
employee picked up haul truck with load , tried to dump it but the load placement did not allow truck to dump . employee backed into a small ditch and dumped load as the bed was raising the front of the truck rose   up . when load dumped , the truck's front end came back down causing her chest to hit steering wheel .
drilling holes with a highwall drill to prepare a shot when one of the holes started having smoke and heat coming out of it . could not extinguish in 30 minutes .
the employee was repairing a power ram that was jammed in the extended position . he tapped the end with a hammer and the piston retracted pinching his left thumb . a piece of tissue was avulsed from the palmer side of the thumb . the wound was debrided and cauterized at the emergency room .
at approximately 5:10 am on 07/24/2008 am the kiln operator noticed a spike in the temperatures in the coal mill . a piece of metal had entered with the coal causing a fire . the operator shut off the air supply , called the fire department and notified mine safety and health administration . the fire was contained in the coal mill and was extinguished soon after .
on 3/6/14 injured employee went to another employee and said his left thumb seemed to ache but 'only ' when he drove the forklift . other employee told him to stay off the forklift and asked if he wanted to go to doctor injured employee replied 'no ' . on 3/12/14 injured employee told other employee he wanted to go to the doctor as his thumb seemed to be aching more . injured employee said he had continued to drive the forklift .
employee stated employee was helping splicing a belt and pinched finger in the belt clamp
a fall of the roof occurred at number 6 - number 7 cross-cut number 1 entry of 1st main west entry . bolted with 72 inch fully grouted pins .
employee was operating end - dump truck when he hit a bad spot in haul road . he jammed shoulder and elbow against truck .
employee was putting stinger rod in for the wire liner he got it to high and could not hold on to it . when it started to fall he held onto it and when the rod struck the ground it pulled his hand into the   drill frame smashing his left ring finger .
coal fire located in east pit . no mine personnel or facilities were at risk at any time , the nearest mine equipment ( hitachi excavator 951 ) was approximately 1200 yards away . suspected cause was spontaneous combustion . fire was controlled within 2 hours , fire watch continued no evidence of fire on may 25 , 2016 , 09:00am .
employee was helping install a screen plate at the rotary breaker bldg . a come-along was attached to the screen so it could be lifted . while lifting the screen into the breaker 1 side got hung up 2 employees pushed the screen to help realign it at which time screen came loose from come-along striking arm of employee as hit the ground .
the employee stated that while drilling a roof bolt hole , the drill steel started to bend , as he reached out to grab hold of the drill steel , he accidentally put up pressure on the steel which caught his left hand between the drill steel and the bolt mast . the accident was caused by the failure of the employee to drop the drill mast instead of lifting it . the employee had on his personal protective equipment .
employee's shift began at 7:00 pm on 5/30/2008 . employee fell off of the ladder onto a shovel during shift change . employee was released to full duty on 6/12/08 . employee returned to clinic on 6/25/08 and was not allowed to return to work until further tests are performed .
miner was getting bolts for next row , when a rock fell from the roof , striking him on the left leg , just above the knee . he went to doctor , and was released modified duty with a deep bruise .
while stepping off of a back hoe , employee stepped on a rock resulting in twisting and breaking his ( left ) fibula .
employee was hanging magnet on beltline and fell injuring his right shoulder . employee has a two week no overtime restriction .
employee was walking down the side bank of the pit and stepped on loose material and twisted his knee . he was going to work on a pit pump . employee thought his knee would get better on its own . on 8/16/05 he requested to go to the doctor and he received a prescription for the inflammation .
employee was climbing a fixed ladder and foot slipped off the fourth ground causing employee to fall 10 ft .
employee was bending a stick of rebar and it brake causing him to lose his balance and hyper extend his left knee . employee felt pain in left knee
employee was dumping a hopper into a dumpster . employee triggered the release with his hand while standing next to the hopper . the hopper tilted forward to dump and bounced back . when the hopper came back , the employee's finger was pinched between the hopper frame and tow motor . the employee's fingertip was broken and lacerated . the finger required 7 stitches to close the wound .
injured party was beside the scoop where he had been loading blocks into the scoop bucket . he had his right hand lying up on the scoop bucket behind the stinger when the operator shut scoop off and accidentally hit the lever with his knee getting out of scoop . the scoop bucket came back and caught the ring finger on the right hand at the end of the finger .
employee was traveling in return when he found a roof fall , 2 breaks inby spad no 1827 in number 2 southwest mains . the fall is 20 ft long by 20 ft wide by 7 ft high . the fall is 10,000 ft from the face
employee received an impact eye injury while chipping slag after welding . employee returned to work same day , however he did receive a prescription .
employee was setting roof support ( rock prop ) for support recovery ( longwall ) roof support kicked out while setting and struck employee on his left ankle .
a piece of steel fell and bruised his right   thigh .
while prying with pry bar at the 4 x 8 '' chute , unloading rock from the chute , another rock hit bar then hit employee's right wrist .
employee stood up and felt a pain in his left ankle . eh did not strike or bump anything . didn't twist or catch anything with his foot . he says that there were no problems prior with his ankle and supervisor   is not aware of any problem . diagnosed with achilles tendon and put on modified duty . it is not known what caused injury .
employee was moving a rock and twisted his back .
employee was hooking chain through belt when he twisted his body causing pain in lower right back . employee first shift missed due to incident was 4-23-00. employee was diagnosed as having a herniated disc .
employee was going into the supervisor's change room , slipped , fell and hit her head and shoulder on a notice box mounted on the the outside wall . this jarred her neck . she was taken to the doctor , diagnosed with a strain , then went the emergency room and taken off work until 4/13 . currently ongoing .
employee was packing 50 lb bags . he was close to emptying the bin when a bag blew up on number 3 packer . he was patting the bag at the time . when it blew up it threw product into his left eye . employee was wearing safety glasses at the time . he was taken to emergency room . where they irrigated eye and released him .
an unintentional fall of the roof was discovered on the 1 right tail section panel in the number 3 entry at spad number 90 cross cut # 42. the fall was approximately 18 ft . x 18 ft . and 7 feet high . this was in the bleeder entry and will not be cleaned up .
employee removing bearing from pulley using punch , small piece broke and metal hit left side of chest causing minor laceration . employee treated and returned to work same day of incident .
while cutting a piece of 1 plate for a bed cable hook , employee attempted to remove the template when the employee's hand got caught between template and saw horse causing injury to left hand . employee taken to emergency room and taken off work for 1 day .
employee was inspecting screw conveyor . as employee was putting the lid back on the screw , the lid slipped out of his hand , he lost his balance , and put his hand into hot dust . some of the hot dust got inside his glove . thus , the employee was burned .
employee was using a 4 '' grinder equipped with a matabo blade cutting up 4 '' galvanized 'c ' channel . the bench had an accumulation of dust on it . a gust of wind blew dust up under his face shield into his right eye .
operator of scrapper that ran over a coworker and killed him on 2-8-00. operator had been suffering from stress related problems associated with this event . on 3-14 he reported a work related illness for stress .
employee ( employee ) was greasing the loader at the start of shift . employee reported he ducked under the boom arms and felt a pop in his lower back . employee said he'd   like to see how it felt in a few days before he went to clinic . employee went to clinic 11/05/15 , diagnosed with lower back strain . physical therapy ordered with no restrictions . released from care 11/17/15
while sliding a piece of steel off of the welding table one of the iron supporting blocks under the plate steel fell from the table and struck the employee just behind the steel toe on his right foot .
employee deposited a pallet of product in storage area with a forklift . when backing up , he and another forklift backed into each other rear end to rear end . the other lift driver , not injured , said they did not watch where they were going - equal negligence . injured employee's hat was knocked off , he felt discomfort in his neck and left work an hour later . he is now in doctor's care .
employee was using a flip hopper mounted on a forklift to dump trash in a large waste container . when the hopper was tipped , it rocked backward pinching employee's left pinky finger , resulting in a laceration and fracture of the tip of the finger .
injured was helping work on number 4 diesel manbus when the motor cover fell and hit injured right hand . injured was taken to hospital , nothing broke .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at the alloy powellton mine in the number 6 entry , near spad number 717 that measured approximately 30 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . no injuries were reported . the area was developed on 3-25-10 .
employee was standing on dragline boom box arc gouging . molten metal traveled down right leg and settled in right boot burning right foot .
employee stated while picking up belt structure he felt pain in left shoulder .
employee states that wrench slipped off nut when he was tightening a spring elbow slammed into side of equipment .
employee states while removing 4 bolts that hold the cable tensioner unit in place on a link belt crane the unit suddenly moved striking employee on his left hand .
employee was installing light fixture in bagging/loading bathroom . used bolt to secure an end of 8 ' light fixture while preparing to secure the other end . the bolt worked off this allowing the fixture to fall which struck the employee .
employee was cleaning up by hand around plant , pitched a rock into a chute , missed , tried to catch rock , rock fell on little finger .
during the process of signaling to guide assembly into place on platform , he placed his left hand between a stationary i beam and the bolts extruding from the lock retainer , creating a pinch point   which resulted in injury to left hand .
on 04/16/16 , the employee was welding , a spark flew back from a burning torch , it burned through employee's jeans causing it to burn employee's knee . on 04/17/16 employee had to go to a clinic , they sent employee to emergency room at hennepin county medical center , where they gave employee an antibiotic . employee returned to full time duty 04/21/16 .
employee alleges that act of getting into and out of maintenance pickup truck ( chevy silverado ) not equipped with running board resulted in recurring sciatic type pain radiating from right buttock to right calf . employee requested treatment on 1/25/10 .
employee was inside of shield changing hose when the shields on either side was put on ram and the jack raised up mashing his right knee between the ram jack and ram tunnel .
employee was pulling cake bin out from filter press and slipped on organic . felt pull in pubic area .
member was getting the lid off of a can of never-seize and then razor knife slipped cutting his index finger on right hand .
he was pulling miner cable out of the way in the roadway on the 003-0 section . his back started hurting him . he continued to work until 7/22/04 . he went to the doctor then . he saw a specialist on 8/2/04 and mri was scheduled .
a roof fall has occurred on the 002 section in the number 4 entry on 2g beltline at spad number 19175. the fall measured 20 ' wide by 30 ' long by 48 ' thick . ventilation or passage of men not affected . no equipment involved and no injuries reported . area will be rehabilitated .
employee was assisting in bringing digester unit back on line . he opened up the 300 lb steam valve using a valve wrench . after completion , he picked up his 8 lb sledge hammer with his right hand and felt pain in his right shoulder . employee received a medication injection on 8/25/12 .
end of shift 3/14 , employee lifted tool bag out of truck and felt strain in his stomach . morning of 3/15 employee reported incident from 3/14 . he indicated his stomach was still hurting and had a knot . he was sent to local clinic . clinic physician confirmed several days later injury was in fact work related after conversations with lafarge and specialist . surgery 3/30 to correct .
quote : '' during the week i was fighting with the company over matters with the fmla . the company was penalizing me and possibly terminating me while under the fmla . there is an open case with the   labor board . '' - employee
east 2 right , block 14 , entry 2 , mobile mining unit oo7 , 4-way intersection . 20' long x 18' wide x 10' high . type of support : cable bolts , 6'3/4 '' resin , roof mats , wire screen . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee was using a 4 inch hand held grinder , with a cutting disc , to cut a piece of angle iron . the cutting disc became lodged in the cut and broke apart . two broken pieces contacted the employee's leg , causing cuts .
employee was conducting scheduled cleaning of plant . employee was using a general purpose hammer to clear dried material off the conveyor frame . as employee hit the frame , the hammer ricocheted off striking employee's opposite ( left ) pinky finger . employee received a laceration and was taken to the clinic . employee did not receive sutures however , employee was prescribed an antibiotics .
repairman employee was one of four repairman assigned to repair the mag plant ferman press on 9-26-02. at approx . 1100 am while removing the top north pick-up beam with fellow repairman , other , employee reported   he felt a sharp pain in his right groin area . medical treatment revealed a right groin strain and one day restricted duty until rechecked on 9-28-02 and full release to work on 9/29/0
employee stated while in the process of drilling outside hole in number 2 left cross-cut , was adding a piece of drill steel when a rock fell from the top striking him on his left hand catching his middle finger between rock and drill pot . employee sustained an avulsion and fracture to the tip of his middle finger . employee was wearing metacarpal gloves .
the 002 section had pillared 5 rows without an initial fall . the crew noticed that a fall was impending and moved and timbered the equipment to a safe location . the fall rode through the breaker timbers 1 cross-cut inby spad 1291 approximately   70 ' x 20' wide x 10 ' high . mine safety and health administration was present at the time of the fall .
employee had been cleaning up a cement spill with a shovel and at times a vacuum . he states that he began to notice pain in his lower left abdomen on his way home . he was sent for an evaluation the morning of 10-21-03 and returned to work the same day on restricted duty for one week .
employee has worked in maintenance for bgmi for 17 years . began feeling some pain and discomfort in november 2004 , which has gradually gotten worse . right hand is painful radiating to index , middle and ring fingers ; middle finger locks up as in a case of trigger finger . received cortisone shot on 03/25/05 in which this became reportable .
employee went to see the doctor on 4/12 and was placed on restricted work duty . while getting out to load truck , left foot slipped off bottom step , employee fell and landed on right thigh and right hand .
a fall of roof occurred in the west main entries cross-cut 38 in the number 3 entry . outby the unit and the area was developed 9/21/98 . the area was supported with 6 ft fully grouted bolts
employee was helping to change blow bars on the impact crusher . left wrist was caught between the blow bar and the blow bar holder tool . employee was diagnosed with a left wrist contusion/bruise . during follow up appointment on 07/13/2016 employee was referred to physical therapy by the treating physician's assistant .
while operating the crane , the employee turned off the heater disconnect switch and when he pulled down on the switch his hand contacted part of the disconnect box resulting in a laceration on his hand . he received 7 stitches on his left hand .
the injured employee was pulling the end of a conveyor belt with channellocks when he felt pain in his left shoulder .
installing of dewey dag bolt. employee tossed dewey dag driver toward the rib , in doing so driver bounced back and struck right thumb .
employee was traveling down ramp , he was unable to maintain control and sideswiped the highwall at the bottom of the ramp .
while employee was walking in muddy conditions doing mine examinations , employee experienced pain in back .
while installing walkway and handrail on a coal silo , a section of hand rail fell 8 ft striking employee on left shoulder , bruising shoulder . he finished shift .
employee was using a 4 lb . shop hammer and a 1 3/4 '' combination wrench to loosen nuts on coal mill bowl. employee struck the wrench with the hammer and this caused the wrench to bounce up and strike employee on top of his left hand .
employee was driving up the ramp and began to feel lightheaded and dizzy . employee stopped truck and called supervisor and got out of truck until help could arrive
hitting ratchet with 3 lb hammer , it kicked back hitting his thumb and bending it back out of the socket .
employee opened his truck door to get out of the truck . the door struck the loadout platform framework and bounced back , striking his right knee and causing a bruised knee .
employee was a passenger in the mantrip when it ran into a rib while sliding through a curve . passenger hit his head on the front plate of mantrip . per procedure employee was life flighted to hospital . no injury was reported .
employee was climbing onto loader . his left foot was on a step and his hands on the handrails . his left hand slipped from the hand rail causing him to fall backward onto his right foot twisting his back . initial chiropractic diagnosis from employee's private doctor indicated compressed disks . further medical examination disproves this initial diagnosis .
employee was walking at the plant facilities , a cornerstone of the crane collapsed , hitting the employee directly to the body and falling down . employee was wearing safety equipment as required ( capacete ) . received multiple injuries to the upper and lower body .
the crusher was out of adjustment . employee went to put in return rotor and plate flew back and hit his thumb .
employee was operating a continuous miner when a shuttle car struck the water line that is connected to that continuous miner . this resulted in the water line bursting and spraying downs on the face . this caused some foreign particle to enter his left eye . medical treatment was received and prescription medication given .
foot slipped off stairway and employee fractured left hand and arm .
injury occurred on 5-7-01. i was informed on 5-15-01. this was the first day of lost time . the employee returned to work on 5-17-01. i have enclosed a copy of the injury report from the health care facility .
when the roofbolter cable started to reel up , the cable hit employee in the back of the head and neck .
it was reported to management   that a blue/orange flame was observed for a short duration of 1-2 seconds and self extinguished . this occurrence took place at number 46 shield , 1-a longwall face . investigation   revealed there were sulfur deposits in the face .
employee claims his back started hurting after lifting form panels . did not report in timely manner . went to doctor and is off work from 6/25 on .
a roof fall was discovered on the old spruce west section in the number 1 entry at spad # 9060. the dimensions of this fall are : 90 ' ( long ) x 20 ' ( wide ) x 7 ' ( high ) . this fall occurred sometime between 10/12/04 to 10/19/04 .
employee was working a valve handle back and forth when he contacted a sharp edge on the handle with his left forearm . result was a laceration that required five sutures to repair . no lost work days or restricted duty .
employee states he was cleaning a product lump out of the converter discharge chute to the fluid bed dryer belt . the bar he was using slipped in his hand and his left thumb hit the chute . the result was a fractured thumb
alsco sales rep was lifting rugs in vehicle . injured coughed and felt a pop and burning pain in side .
employee states that as truck was being loaded with rock , he got shook up and a little while later his back and left leg started hurting . was taken to hospital , was released and told to rest 4 days .
employee was moving hot material from the kiln feed end chute with a skid steer loader . employee was dumping this material into a 980 loader bucket and some hot material splashed back and contacted employee . employee was burned on his hands , arms and face .
injured was climbing down a ladder in the number 5 baghouse when he felt a pop in his right shoulder .
he was in the process of hanging curtain , he went to step on the tire of bolter and pulled muscles in his back.
employee was in process of task training miner utilizing a cobra air drill to install rib bolt . the bolt broke holding drill shank and struck employee in the forehead causing a laceration .
employee was hand loading roof-bolt plates into scoop bucket . employee finished loading the plates and went back to the section . employee was exiting the scoop and felt pain in the lower lumbar region . this incident did not become reportable until 01/08/2018 when employee was placed on restricted duty .
mantrip 100004 did not make a turn exiting the mine and struck the rib . a passenger said they experienced back pain . the employee was examined at the local emergency room and taken off work .
while adjusting a tail-pulley down , employee started having some discomfort on left side of chest
employee was walking from office to locker room , slipped on icy patch in driveway , fell down onto back . did not seek medical attention until 12-19-00 , 4:00 pm employee taken to cayuga medical center , examined   and released told not to lift more than 10 lbs . until 12-28-00 .
employee strained his back and right hip on 4/10/09 while using a pry bar to unhang material . he did not seek medical treatment until his initial doctor visit on july 2. employee was not placed on restricted duty , but was referred to a physical therapist for further treatment . this injury is being reported within 10 business days of the initial doctors visit on july 2 , 2009 .
a roof fall occurred number 2 section return 2000 ' outby section inby spad # 4926. fall measured 20 ' long , 18 ' wide and 6 ' thick . no injuries , no passage of men affected .
injured employee was operating a 992g endloader loading rock trucks . he was loading parallel with the shot , undercutting the shot material and some rock rolled into the cab resulting in contusions to the left hand and right knee . he had been instructed on two previous occasions to load perpendicular to the shot material .
while breaking flange to drain , line separated and caustic sprayed employee in eyes . he was taken to williamson eye center . steroid eye drops for inflammation was prescribed . he returned to work with no restrictions .
employee was operating haul truck hauling shot rock to the primary crusher . while being loaded , the bucket of the loader contacted the truck bed and jerked the truck . the employee complained of back pain and told the super about incident but refused medical attention at that time . on 9/21 the employee told the super was in a great deal of pain and needed to seek medical attention for back pain .
employee stated he was getting out of mantrip , left leg popped with pain .
a mechanic worked on a dust collector bag change on 5/22 . the next tuesday , he called in with complaints of back pain , but did not indicate a work related injury . while receiving medical attention , he reasoned that the bag change must be the cause of injury . on 6/13 , he met with supervision to make a workers compensation claim . an investigation is in process . awaiting assessment by physicians .
employee was using a wrench to change out a cut out the wrench slipped and his hand hit the broken cut out resulting in cut on finger .
while installing a cable bolt , a piece of draw rock fell striking the center of the bolt causing bolt to flip up and strike member in mouth , cutting his lip and chipping a tooth .
a temporary employee slipped while pulling wires from underneath the motor control center room on a dragline . when employee attempted to catch self , employee injured right shoulder . the employee was not released to return to work and began losing time on 12/31/16 .
employee was carrying a welder to the back of the warehouse . employee tripped , and felt pain in his lower back .
a scraper operator was removing the center edge from 657 # 16. one bolt would not come off so a welder was called to cut it off . the welder was laying under the scraper to cut the nut off . when the bolt was cut off it caused the cutting edge to fall on his foot causing the damage .
employee stated that he was performing his regular job of rock dusting resting the complained of low back pain
employee was changing the oil on the john deere 400 haul truck . when he was closing the belly pan he strained his back . this was not originally an mine safety and health administration reportable , but became one later when the employee went to the doctor and was put on restricted duty .
employee was lifting a portable plastic water cooler filled with ice and water when he felt pain in his back . a few minutes later while walking to his job site he began to feel pain again .
employee was replacing classifier blades at roller mill . he was crawling out of the roller mill and reached for the hand rail with his right arm . he felt a sharp pain and herd a popping sound in his right shoulder .
employee was stripping insulation off the conveyor belt remote line , when his hand slipped and cut his left thumb , which required sutures to close .
employee was shoveling material from under conveyor belt onto conveyor belt . his shovel hit a roller . the shovel knocked back and hit employee on his right cheek . the blow cut his cheek . employee received 19 stitches .
employee alleges he twisted his back on the rought terrain of the road surface .
employee was scaling highwall with 350c cat excavator on undetected rock of small size was undetected by injured . rock hit protective cab , causing jar and bruise to right leg . cab was positioned   away from highwall during the process of scaling highwall .
employee states that while climbing the ladder on a haul truck he missed stepping down on the top step and fell to the ground . nobody witnessed the fall , and the ladder was not broken or bent .
employee was taking bolts out of saddle of wheel unit . his hand was resting on fender of shuttle car when a rock ( approximately   5 lb ) fell out and mashed his fingers between rock and the fender .
stooped over to measure a shaft , employee stood up , turned , and felt a sharp pain in his back area . employee was placed on restrictions .
the prell hose failed and blew prell into eye , causing minor burns to skin around eye and small laceration on eye .
mine safety and health administration inspector issued citation of 25 db average threshold shift on the 2000,3000,4000 hz range - left ear . audiologist , industrial hearing , identifies no reporting required . requested health conference to vacate - mine safety and health administration inspector requesting 7000-1 form to terminate citation paperwork .
employee was inspecting post maintenance repair of the raw meal feed sampler . during the operational test the sampler mixer unexpectedly activated .
while working employee stepped into a hole and fell striking his right arm , shoulder and head and felt pain . pain worsened and he called an emergency medical technician . transport by ambulance to st john's emergency room springfield . no fractures were identified and he was scheduled to undergo a series of physical therapy sessions making this a medical reportable event .
at an unknown date and time there was a roof fall measuring approximately 130' long x 20 ' wide from break 58 to break 59 on south 1 section .
employee was out of haul truck in an undesignated area . he tripped which resulted in injury .
a fall of roof occurred in the 2nd right panel off the 3rd southeast submain at cross-cut number 28 , number 3 entry . the fall measured approximately 18 feet wide x 18 feet long x 6 foot thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
employee was uncoupling an 1.5 inch frozen line and was saturated with cement . the cement entered employee's boot without employee realizing due to freezing temperatures . employee worked until 2/1/2016 when employee required medical attention for 2nd degree burns to the top of employee's right foot .
employee was inspecting trunnion water circulation system on number 5 kiln trunnion . water blew out while hose was disconnected causing hot water burns to left   forearm and knee
the injured employee was drilling a bolt hole , when a piece of roof slate fell , striking him on the bridge of the nose .
a roof fall was discovered in the secondary escapeway , number 4 entry of number 4 mains , 140 ' inby spad 1462 , as the fire boss was making pre-shift examination . the fall was approximately 6 ' high , 20 ' wide and 30 ' long .
employee was standing next to a roof bolt machine when slack from the cable reel was taken up , knocking employee down and breaking left hand .
the employee was straightening a 6 ' torque tensioned bolt and the bolt spun around , injuring the employee's left shoulder .
employee stated that he was securing side line on timber head and felt pain in lower back . began missing work 10-04-02 .
a roof fall was found in the number 6 entry outby 2 section near spad # 11307. the fall was called in to both state and federal agencies . no one was injured .
while cutting top , a rock flew off drum and struck employee in the mouth .
employee bent over to pick up/move continuous miner cable . employee stated he felt pain in his lower back .
the employee stated he was pulling line curtain in the number 3 heading across the last open cross-cut after he had bolted the place . as he was pulling on the curtain , his right foot slipped from under him and he fell backward onto his left foot .
employee was down by crusher rock jammed being slug hammer to remove rock , rock didn't move trauma from hitting rock caused wrist to have pain .
on 8-6-07 employee complained about sore knee from slamming on d9l dozer brakes . did not want medical attention . on 9-4-07 complained about his knee being swollen . sent him to doctor and he was cleared for work . medication : oxyprozin more than 1 dose ( anti-inflammatory ) .
employee was pulling pump cable through a stopping , when employee slipped on the cable and twisted employee's left knee . employee went to the doctor on 7/23/2018
injured was laying 85 lb track rail when the rail turned over and caught his middle finger on left hand . this resulted in a fracture and laceration .
our worker was cleaning a restroom and as she was connecting a sprayer ( that had a chemical called century q in it ) to a garden hose the connection wasn't secure spraying back on her face even with safety glasses on the water and chemical ran down her forehead and into her left eye .
employee was exiting the prep plant to do his regular laborer's job when another employee threw a chunk of coal out the window , hitting employee on the head .
standing on ladder , pulling on 1/2 '' drive longhand ratchet . rachel positioned upside down . socket slipped off nut , striking employee on right side of mouth requiring stitches .
employee was operating a scraper being pushed by another scraper to load him and was jarred by the impact .
employee was working in the clinker basement hooking up several ladders to the hook of the model 308 grove crane . as he was securing the ladders with a rope , he noticed that the rope was tangled in some other equipment . the spotter misinterpreted his movements with his hand as the signal to raise the load , which cause his right hand to be pinched under the cable .
employee alleges that during the week of 24 to 28 of july he was carrying a screen cloth that he placed on the secondary vibrator which has different weights . he injured his back and his right thigh .
while performing pm on truck mechanic noticed cracks in bed . asked helper to throw paint to him to mark cracks . when he reached for paint can . he started to fall . he held on to hand rail to keep from falling and bruised right   leg , arm and hip . also had concussion .
leaning over metal frame of plant to place screen into plant . he was applying pressure to screen to get it in place . when it went into place , it caused him to lunge forward into metal frame of   plant which hit him in his midsection on his front side .
employee was cleaning up spilt clay from under 66 shredder with a floor scrape . pulling clay out form shredder .
while walking on the section , employee hit his head on the mine roof and fell backwards , striking his elbow against a scoops batteries .
employee slipped off ladder straining lower back .
employee was working on east b belt and stepped on a piece of angle iron and punctured boot and left foot .
on 9/4/06 an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 1st 42 , north belt line , number 4 entry between # 52 cross-cut and # 53 cross-cut . this area was supported with 6 foot point anchor roof bolts . the roof fall measured 45 feet in length by 18 ' feet in width and 8 feet in thickness . the roof fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
employee was backing left side continuous miner out of number 8 entry , moving it to number 9 entry . employee had hooked up third rope and was turning around and twisted employee's left knee when employee's foot became caught between miner cables and water line . this incident became reportable when employee sought medical attention on 8/6/18 and was taken off work .
employee is a welder repairman was changing v-belt on conveyor while installing finger became caught between belt and sheave . employee was sent to occupation health for a pinch to tip of little finger right   hand . over the counter meds were given . employee stated that the tip of finger was bent inward . employee was sent to orthopedics and a splint was placed on finger 7/25/17 . continues to work full duty .
operator of brookville locomotive violated movement instructions thus hitting mantrip head on . cross-cut 83. employee treated and released at charlston area medical center emergency room with cracked vertebrae . referred to specialist .
rock fall between number 5 and number 6 entries 70 ' out by spad number 2491 . fall is 50 ' long , 3-6 ' hight 19 ' wide .
employee was stacking pallets using a forklift . he raised the pallet and put his head outside the operator's compartment to check placement when a 50 lbs bag fell and struck employee on the head . prescription   issued . did not report injury until 1-20-03 .
employee exited a small 4 wheel mantrip to check and date up a pump . upon exiting the mantrip he fell backwards and struck his head on a slate bar .
employee was assembling a hydraulic hose in the hose room when he stepped on a bad spot in the floor and sprained his knee .
an unintentional fall of the roof occurred at the cross cut number 95 in the number 5 entry at spad # 659. this fall is 11,000 ft from the working section . this fall will be cleaned up and supported pending the approval of the clean up plan submitted .
installing a pan on loader , a bolt fell out causing pan to drop . pan weight jammed impact gun into employee thumb . bending the thumb in a backwards position .
employee was performing welding repairs on chute for load zone when lost footing and caught self by grabbing a beam . employee initially diagnosed with right lateral epicondylitis . on august 24 , 2016 , employee had surgery to repair a partial tear of the common extensor tendon .
the above mine has experience a non-injury unintentional roof fall on mobile mining unit 012-0 submains . nichols submains but off . the fall was off the section 3 cross-cuts outby the deepest penetration of nichols   submains in number 2 entry . the fall is approximately   50' long , 20 ' wide , and 3-6 ' thick . laminated slate and sandstone gave way . the area had been supported with 4 and 5 ' fully grouted rods . no damage
employee was returning a derail device to its storage room . when employee went to put the device down employee experienced back pain . diagnosed as back strain .
employee was cleaning out lime build up under a tail pulley so he could unload rail cars . employee was kneeling in water and wet lime for approximately two hours . he mentioned to his supervisor that his knees were sore . on 2/11 he told his supervisor he was going to the doctor for sore and raw knees .
injured was checking the sample crushed material belt to see why it was kicking off . he stated that he thought the snub roller had coal build up on it and was checking the roller when his glove became caught between the belt and roller pulling his hand in between the roller and belt .
employee walking through intersection of number 3 entry , trip over water line , and fell onto self-contained self-rescuer injured low back area . taken to emergency room , x-ray negative , released to return to work 9/2/09 . on 9/2/09 saw doctor at family health center , taken off work.
the number 3 coal mill system went down loaded with coal due to a secondary firing fan motor failure at 7:45am . the motor was replaced , and when the operator began to `` bump '' the coal mill empty several hours later an explosion occurred in the coal mill circuit causing the pressure relief explosion vent to rupture . no employee injuries or equipment damages occurred .
as employee was operating the continuous miner a piece of draw rock fell grazing his right cheek causing a laceration requiring 6 stitches .
while getting out of a pickup truck to work at the pond 7 laydown , the sole of his boot caught on the floor mat . this caused a misstep and he twisted his left knee . he was taken to the hospital and instructed to keep all weight off the knee .
a lab tech . was taking a sample out of a pipe that was loading a rail car . the force of the flowing material took the bag from his hand . it startled him and he jerked his hand back hitting his index finger of his right hand on metal . this caused a laceration on his finger requiring five stitches to close .
employee began seeing yellow flashes in the bottom of his right eye . he continued to work until 7/29/13 when surgery was performed due to a 75 % detached retina in right eye . investigation has revealed the condition was brought on by stressful exertion while performing normal duties of a longwall utility man . this is being reported as an occupational   illness since no true incident precipitated it .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in the barrier cut through from 4 left 1 north section into the old 3 left 1 north bleeder entry ( survey station 7842- 7140 . ) size of fall could not be determined , but the height was above the roof bolt anchorage . the approach had been supported and dangered off . age of fall could not be determined because fall was not reported to mine .
was helping put augers into beams and twisted the wrong way causing employee lower back to knot up . didn't really feel anything until friday morning around 10:00 am .
adjusting and cleaning of a tail pulley on a 110 ' masaba conveyor loto was not performed by the employee before entering the tail pulley section of the conveyor . belt was energized by the operator ; employee was in tangled in the pulley from his feet to his mid section of his body . employee was fatally injured .
prying with bar , bar slipped . caught little finger on right hand .
service truck fire : smoke inhalation , extinguished fire on truck . employee was treated and release the princess margaret hospital emergency room at 5:00 on 12-19-03
putting hangars on finger for chute repair . 8 ft piece of metal square stocks cut index finger on sharp edging at top . heavier than expected . stitches / possible hairline crack in tip of index finger bone .
assisting 3 other employee in high area to left belt structure , lifted top stored up overhead , opposite side of started slipped off bed rail and top stand struck him on top of head . complained with rules   , regulations not a factor . protective item not a factor proficiency communication between workers could be a factor did not miss days until 6-16-00 .
employee used brake cleaner and kroil oil to clean a shaft . the product pooled in the key way and when employee inserted the key ; the product shot up into employee's eyes . the chemical went under employee's safety glasses and prescription glasses . reportable only due to prescription medication for eyes .
the injured employee went to talk to the scoop operator and put left hand on the side of the scoop bucket . employee didn't realize the scoop was running and the operator was pulling the ram back . it caught employee's left middle finger between the side of the bucket and the side of the ram blade which pinched employee's finger in it .
employee was cleaning material off a catwalk the material was 8 '' to 12 '' rock that had been spilled over onto the catwalk , by the discharge chute stopping up . the employee had move a rock when another rock moved catching employee's   finger in between both rocks . smashing his right middle finger .
employee was operating machine too close to embankment . the employee was not watching embankment when it collapsed onto machine . employee was pinned temporarily by his feet . employee then disembarked machine and was ta ken to hospital where he was treated for bruise and released .
employee was shoveling material under the number 3 screen deck when a one foot diameter rock fell off and struck the employee on his left shoulder and back .
employee failed to notice that a valve was opened and he opened the valve allowing hot caustic slurry to come out and contact his left forearm . employee sustained second degree burns on his left forearm . restricted duty only , no lost work days .
treated for cubital tunnel syndrome by surgery 1/5/2016 . accepted as compensable by workers compensation 1/9/2018 .
employee was lifting side rail of miner and fell on his right foot .
the employee was shoveling hard packed salt along 24 belt incline . the employee's foot slipped off a small ledge that was created during the clean-up process , thus twisting the right ankle . later in the shift   the employee was pushing a wheelbarrow along rough ground and stepped on an uneven spot , aggravating the injury .
employee was using a handheld grinder to cut rails on a screen deck . the employee was in an awkward body position trying to cut with the grinder and had to maneuver around machine parts . the grinder kicked back and struck their right forearm causing a laceration .
employee was collaring a hole off in the face with a jackleg . he lost his balance and fell . the jackleg fell on top of him
received a citation for a failure to report # 6270511. the citation has been conferenced and technical support call for evaluation of a ground support failure . the findings of our evaluation   show a drilling and shooting problem not a ground support problem . this should be verified once tech support report is received on underhand mining methods and the use of paste .
about 4 am discovered fall entry number 6 on 001 section , in return , 60 ' inby spad 2184. fall was 55 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' , there was no equipment involved , ventilation was not affected , passage of people was not affected . area was breakered off , and we have no plans to rehabilitation this area . both mine safety and health administration and ky office of mine safety and licensing was notified .
a fire occurred at impoundment id number   1211-tx-09-02847-17 ( sp-4 ) . upon investigation the fire began february 15 , 2002. the fire was noticed by a texis municipal power agency employee . source of ignition is being investigated   as of this date .
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
employee was replacing hose on d-11 dozer when he slipped hitting his lower leg against the track of the dozer . he was taken to terre haute regional hospital , where he was examined and given five stitches in his lower leg .
picking up dryer flight and felt a strain in low back . was informed by nurse that he was being treated by a chiropractor . no lost or restricted time . just went to chiropractor a few times and adjustments were needed .
twisted back while handling rockdrill to put away pulled muscle in back .
employee was using a 5 ' iron bar to clean out chute . rock came down chute and hit bar causing bar to strike employee in head .
while shoveling belt employee pulled shovel back with both hands and began to relocate shovel in gob , a rock 18 '' round x 6 '' thick fell and struck him on the left wrist and hand .
employee was setting bolt and spun the torque tension bolt backwards and snapped head off the bolt . the plate flew off and hit employee in the forehead above the left eye
while working on a maintenance project , employee was drilling a small pilot hole to attach a cover to the oversize conveyor on the red screening plant when a piece of metal became airborne and struck employee in the right eye . personal protective equipment was and is provided and readily available but employee was not utilizing it at the time .
the employee was operating the roof bolting machine and a small piece of rock fell from the mine roof , hitting him in the back of his neck and on his back . he finished bolting and returned to work the next day .
employee . hurt left elbow when he tripped over a grate and fell against the side of a tank . employee reported the claim as record only on 4/20 . on 5/4/11 employee reported the accident to health and safety director so a doctor visit could be made .
employee was attempting to remove a drain plug from a 777 rock truck . he was trying to remove the drain plug by striking a wrench with a hammer . he missed the wrench and struck his hand with the hammer
employee was climbing into a boat from dredge . the handrail broke . he grabbed the spud carriage to keep from falling , and the handrail fell on his left hand bruising his thumb and index finger .
as employee was taking down a stopping he picked up a mandoor and a jack fell over pinching his hand between the jack and mandoor . employee received treatment at raleigh general hospital where he received three ( 3 ) sutures .
rounding corner past 44 chute going towards 33 chute , he slowed for water on road . turning left truck veered right and struck rib on right side by 34 chute entrance . flat tire and broken steering arm .
an unplanned fan outage occurred at our pennview mine due to a power problem that our power supplier to our facilities , experienced on their end . men were withdrawn from the mine . the power was   restored at approximately   0840 , the same shift , and special examination conducted before men were permitted back in mine .
general foreman went to the number 5 lift pump at the number 4 matrix line to perform a key procedure audit . three mechanics were performing a pm on the pump . as general foreman walked around the front of pump sled , he stepped into a hole that was covered with mud . the sudden step into hole caused his left ankle to turn , resulting in torn ligaments .
was repairing coal truck tire , improperly installed inner lock ring , started to air up tire , causing the lock ring to slip and hit the and of air hose . thus sent it air borne to where he was standing   .
employee stepped onto the corrugated metal strap attached to the side of the miner , when the step buckled downward causing employee to fall toward the machine . employee struck left knee against the miner . employee received seven sutures .
8p longwall recovery face number 5 to number 8 recovery face fell out approximately 5 ' to 6 ' high x 3 ' to 5 ' wide x 20 ' long . area has been breakered off , had no effect on ventilation and no escapeways are blocked .
employee was dislodging a rock under the jaw crusher . the rock swung loose and hit him in the mouth.
battery exploded in employee's face . employee was boosting off a dead battery . employee went to the doctor to have his eyes rinsed out .
injured was operating a track mounted mantrip . when he hit a rockduster causing his left hand to get caught between the frame and brake handle . this resulted in a fracture to his left hand .
employee was attempting to install a bolt and accidentally   pushed the wrong lever , causing the drill stell pinchers to close on his left hand .
a fall was discovered in the number 1 entry of the 2 south mains set of entries at survey station 311. the fall is approximately 2000 ft out by the working section and measures approximately 20 ' long by 20 ' wide   by 8 ' high . there were no injuries or equipment involved . ventilation was not disturbed . the fall will be re-bolted . area bolted with 5 ' fully grouted bolts .
was using a chisel and hammer to trim stone - accidently hit right hand with hammer - twice . area swollen and painful used ice pack and went to clinic for x-ray   .
employee reviewed customers paperwork for a pickup . employee let the driver know to enter the center of the building . as the employee was stepping back onto the lift truck , the truck driver entered the building at an angle , allowing the trailer to catch the lift truck dragging it into and pinning lift truck at the building and the trailer . employee hit shoulder and knee on the frame of the lift truck .
employee was checking radiator on excavator when the hinge broke and the hood fell , hitting employee on left shoulder blade .
while operating the company number   405 roof bolter the employee was drilling a 12 ' hole for a cable bolt in the number   5 entry . during the drilling process the operator's kevlar sleeve was caught between two sections of stack steel where it was bunched up around his elbow and when he engaged the rotation his arm became entangled fracturing his foreman .
jeep operator was operating jeep and lost his hat and light and hit a rib with his head . he was taken to hospital where he had 24 stitches above right eye . kept overnight .
the injured employee was tightening bolts on a belt discharge roller bearing , his ratchet slipped causing him to strike his chin on the discharge roller , his upper teeth bit through his lower lip .
a roof fall was discovered in number   2 entry of the left return aircourse near spad 626. the fall measured approximately 20' wide by 80' long x 7 ' thick . there were no injuries and no damage to equipment .
employee was using the drill press to drill out a bearing . the drill bit hung up causing the bearing to spin around . the drill bit broke and the bearing flew off and hit him in the left palm . 4 stitches required .
employee was walking down the ramp , checking his lead wire . not looking where he was walking , he tripped over small rock and lost his balance . he fell , landing on his right hand , which resulted in a fracture on the bone above the pinky .
employee was working on the left track pin on a 350 trackhoe with two ratchet booms , one on each side of the track . coworker then tapped one of the pins , and the ratchet boom came off at that time and struck employee in the left eye/bridge of the nose .
while attaching a jackpipe to a belt tail the pipe slipped off of the anchor and fell across his lower back .
it is the belief of the investigation teams that the victim was standing approximately   8 ' from a pump at its on/off switch . upon de-energizing the pump a condition within the pump caused it to explode propelling the impeller cover plate striking the victim on the torso and pelvis .
the injured employee had walked up into the entry to check the positioning of the mrs he was two feet inby the corner standing next to the miner operator when a rib rock 62 '' x 12 '' x 14 '' popped off of the right rib striking him on the right shoulder and upper torso .
employee was wrestling with another employee when finger jammed against a pallet . finger fractured and employee lost 1 day of work .
injured employee was exiting the crusher/hopper . he fell 11.5 feet to the ground on his right side . coworkers called 911 and 25 minutes later he was gurneyed by the emergency medical technicians then the helicopter showed up and was mediflighted to amarillo hospital .
while torching bluestone with protective eyewear in place , hot stone chip flew into eye .
employee was lifting miner cable to hang against the roof . strained his shoulder . employee did not miss any work until 12/8/03 .
repairman employee was carrying a few pieces of steel in his left hand and his bucket of tools in his right to go up the number 6 preheater stairway . he approached the ground level concrete support pad and   suddenly slipped and fell into the left side handrail . he struck his left side rib/chest area as he fell into the lower stairway handrail . he continued working the remainder of the day and
employee was climbing up the stairs/ladder to his loader when he slipped , falling to the ground . he hit his head on the concrete containment for our fuel storage .
climbed on side of trailer , slipped off ladder and slid down on tires catching right foot and leg between drivers and fell on back with foot still caught between tires injuring right leg and knee   .
employee was crossing over a stationary rail car . when he put his foot on the step to get down , his foot slipped off the ladder . he immediately grabbed the closest handle with his left hand and felt a sharp pain in his left arm .
employee was riding buggy across section when he hit his head into the top .
employee was closing door on backhoe when suddenly the handle of backhoe broke off , causing laceration of left thumb . sent to emergency room and received 9 sutures .
received letter from west virginia workers compensation division granting an award for occupational illness . rec letter 1-27-03 .
was standing guiding a scoop operator picking up a lift of blocks . when the scoop operator raised the lift the fork package caught a hose that was hanging down across the entry . when the scoop   moved the hose sprung free and struck the injured across the face bruising his face .
while repairing a conveyor chain on a shuttle car employee struck his left index finger with a hammer . the impact of the hammer broke his finger and caused a cut and required several stitches .
while the employee was greasing under his rock truck debris fell mud on to him getting behind his glasses and into his eye . employee finished his shift went to er next day . doctor required him to be off work 2 days .
employee was using 3/8 '' drive impact to remove bolts from gas tanks straps for removal of tank . bolt he was loosening with impact was slipping . he then needed a wrench to hold the back side . he placed other hand on back side of bolt to feel what size nut it was . as he placed his fingers on the nut he accidentally turned on the air gun spinning nut cutting finger .
employee changing oil on equipment , lying on flat surface , upon arising , strained right knee
employee was operating a cat 972m rubber tire loader when employee felt pain in back . employee then reported this to immediate supervisor , who took employee to the medical center to be evaluated . there was not a specific activity that triggered the back pain . employee was released back to work with restrictions . the employee has been a loader operator at the facility for 28 years .
changing batteries on ram car at charging station when the operator went to unhook jumper cable from the batteries . a piece of draw rock fell hitting him on his left shoulder and back . the rock   measures 15 inches wide , 37 inches long and 0-2 1/2 inches thick .
employee was climbing down from the back of mechanics truck . he tripped over a loose part and fell to ground .
employee was scattering timbers for belt lay , as he reached and picked up a timber he felt a pain in his lower back .
was breaking a core sample when employee struck left index finger with a rock hammer causing a fracture of the finger . employee was seen by a physician and placed on light duty .
employee was breaking a track on a d-10 t dozer , striking the cat with a hammer with one hand and had his other hand resting on track , track moved , catching his finger and mashing it . received 4 stitches and tore fingernail off .
the barge loader had climbed from top covers of barge down to the bow deck of barge using the attached three-step ladder . when he turned to walk toward the starboard side , he tripped on the lid of the bow wing tank causing him to fall , falling on his right shoulder .
while inspecting the area of a pipe for a hole that required to be repaired lime fell on the employee as employee was looking up . the lime fell directly on the employee's face , getting behind employee's foam lined safety glasses .
employee was lifting heavy parts and using a sledgehammer to remove a d11 blade when he started feeling a burning sensation in his left hip and leg , he also started passing blood .
after operating the front end loader for the day , at the end of the shift , employee felt a severe pain in her lower back . she called her supervisor to help her get off her loader .
the employee was working in the longwall section on the panline when a rock fell from the roof and struck him in the back of the neck and pinched his left forearm on the panline .
victim parked pick up truck close to rear of working wheel loader . victim exited parked track . loader operator was unaware truck or victim were behind him backed up , pinning victim between rear   of loader and sick of pickup truck .
employee was taking a can of gasoline to pump and he slipped and fell hitting his head on a rock .
employee was working on dump truck and hand were wet and pry bar slipped this causing and of bar to come back and cut chin .
employee was cutting conveyer belt to make a splice . he was cutting away from his body , and the blade of the razor knife broke . his arm contacted the broken razor blade , cutting his left forearm   . cut required 3 stitches to close .
employee getting out of a kawasaki mule when employee stepped on a rock and twisted right knee . employee placed on restricted duty pending treatment .
he was working on underground seals . he was loading the machine with sealtec   with safety glasses some of the sealtec   got under his safety glasses . he went to eye doctor and they flushed his eye   , he has to go back again and get it checked .
the hoist brake was not functioning properly as a result break shoe wear . miners were evacuated and the pinion brake switches were adjusted to compensate for shoe wear . evacuation started at 112 5 and was completed at 2340. hoist was tested and miners returned underground at 2300 .
employee was operating a komatsu hydraulic hammer scaler . while scaling the face , the motion of the komatsu scaler lunged forward .
employee stated that he had a toothache and was going to the emergency room . when he got to the emergency room he told them that he got hit with a fork lift . he did not report this to his supervisor and the fork lift operator stated that he knew nothing about the incident . we fill this report with prejudice and that the incident was not reported to supervisory personnel .
he was adjusting chain on wabble feeder during repair he was standing beside the feeder ( 4' away ) he was moving the chain electrically to get in place when master link broke and hit employee in upper left shoulder .
employee was replacing tool - slipped and fell onto a 5-gallon bucket . employee suffered contusion to left arm and right side of torso . on october 14 , employee opted for off-site medical treatment .
employee was tightening a truss bolt with a gun , pulled the gun off the bolt and the gun dropped causing strain to left shoulder . began missing work on 7-21-01 .
employee was changing out a front end on a ram car when he mashed his middle right finger . reportable only due to fracture to middle finger .
miner was changing screen cloth when screen shifted forward unexpectedly and cut middle left finger .
the employee was using bolt cutters to cut a piece of chain from an awkward position . he braced one handle of the bolt cutters against his chest and pulled the other handle towards him . he felt a `` pop   '' in his chest area . the doctor diagnosed a soft tissue injury in his chest area and placed him on restricted duty with a followup appointment . on 6-1-01 .
while installing a pipe the gasket was not set right . when employee went to set the gasket the pipe shifted and pinched his finger between the 2 flanges
employee was climbing out of hatch door and pulled a muscle in left shoulder .
at approximately 6:50am the schindler elevator became inoperable . dirt was found on the door re-opener photo eyes therefore the automatic doors would not shut . the safe edge was cleaned and the elevator was back in operation .
finger got caught on j hook while recovering high voltage . five stitches in index finger of left hand .
the employee was going rom the lunch room into the office to answer the phone . his foot slipped off the stair going into the office , and he everted his ankle and heard a pop . he was transported   to the emergency room with a fracture of the tibia and a spiral fracture of the fibula .
all members plastered stoppings during the move and employee complained after the move of his hands being irritated by the b bond . it had worn a hole in his gloves and gotten on his bare hands .
he was standing near the suction line of the c mains centrifugal pump while the line was being filled . the line came apart at a coupler and struck him on the right side of the head causing a laceration to the left side of the head , concussion and skull fracture .
employee was found by a supervisor lying on the mine bottom beside company number 41 jeep at 0 spur on the 4 right longwall section . employee stated he was attempting to dismount the jeep , when he tripped on a bag of rockdust on the seat and fell , striking the mine rib . he attempted to use his arms to brace the fall and felt pain in his shoulder and upper arm .
operating a roof bolter installing bolts in a face area , while pushing an 8 ' roof bolt into the drilled hole , the bolt hung and bent . employee had gripped the bolt with left hand , attempting to guide it into the hole , employee mistakenly engaged the rotation lever rather than the mask lower lever , the bolt spun striking left forearm resulting in a hairline fracture to the humerus bone .
employee was taking plate off the burning table with a magnet . as he cleared the table , the plate released from the magnet and fell on his right foot . he was sent to hospital for further evaluation and treatment , where it was determined he had a fracture to his right toe . prescription meds were issued , but he returned to work without restrictions .
while performing maintenance work on a euclid r-50 , prior to quarry startup , company id # h-09 , the employee was using a grinder to prep metal for welding of a crack in the body of the above mentioned euclid r-50 , when a metal flake entered his left eye ( cornea ) .
swinging sledge hammer to knock something off and missed pain in right shoulder . swinging hammer and missed pulled arm . arm now is burning and sharp pain
employee slipped and fell during lock out/tag out procedure on an excavator . he was on the catwalk above the tracks when his foot slipped off and he fell to the dirt below ( he said his boots were wet ) . he broke his left hip and femur .
employee was coupling two drill steels together when the steel bent and caught his right thumb between the steel and the trs jack , causing an avulsion of the lower part of his right thumb .
checking screens on a wet shaker and stepped over a wash bay onto a j bolt which penetrated into shoe and slightly into foot .
a roof fall in the 1 south cross-cut number 29 in the number 3 entry measuring 35 ft x 18 ft x 6 ft - 9 ft the area was mined in april 2004 and supported with 6 ft tension rebar bolts and 9 ft mega bolts . this fall was caused by a hidden slip in the mine roof .
a mechanic was using a pneumatic cut-off tool to cut slag from a loader bucket , as he started to cut , the new wheel on the cut-off tool broke into 3 pieces . one piece struck him in the side of his left hand , cutting it through his glove . he was taken to the er and received 6 stitches to close the wound .
a maintenance millwright has been diagnosed with a pleural plaque . though pleural plaques are biological indicators of past asbestos exposure , current and past exposure data and sampling data have not reflected a risk of asbestos exposure .
the employee was prying a cover off of a stage loader crusher , that was being held up by come-alongs . when the come-alongs got the full weight of the cover , the come-along came loose from the top and the employee was caught between the crusher cover and a pile of cable laying on the pavement behind employee . the employee was wearing all the appropriate personal protective equipment .
employee was pulling the curtain into the face at number 7 entry . a piece of draw rock 10 '' x 10 '' and one inch thick fell , striking employee on the neck. he was seen by a specialist on the 20th , who gave him days   off from work .
employee was taken to hospital and began missing time from work on 2-19-01 , suffering from multiple symptoms of unknown cause . medical tests over several months by numerous specialists diagnosed   nerve damage in neck . injury attributed to strong jostling in front end loader when loading rock 4 days before hospitalization . no collision , just rough operation of operator .
employee was working on dredge and got overheated . the initial signs looked like a mini stroke , so was called into mine safety and health administration . after doctors visit , doctor stated it was brought on by heat exhaustion .
while in restroom worker had a heart attack
employee was getting ready to drill a hole . he swung beam in position . drill steel on top of roof bolter was sticking over trap . as he swung boom steel caught between frame and valve causing steel   to fly up and hit him .
employee was painting walls in a quality control lab . employee stepped off of the step ladder that was being used and unto the counter top in the lab . employee lost balance and fell from the counter top to the floor . employee hit head on the floor causing a laceration that required 7 sutures to close the laceration . employee was able to return to work that day with restrictions .
employee claims that while he was working in the hydrate bagger room , he bent over to pick up a 50 lb bag of lime when he felt a sharp pain to his back and neck . he reported the incident on 9-26-00 at which time he requested to see a doctor he was seen at pro-medical center and released to light duty . due to unavailability of light duty , he was excused from duty .
injured was cleaning grease away from bearing on number 5 belt take-up with a stick . the key steel on the bearing caught the piece of wood causing the stick to fly back striking injured in the right ear resulting 22 sutures    
it was confirmed that this miner sustained a recordable standard threshold shift in his left ear
while employee was lifting a pipe to install , he felt his back pull .
number 4 entry cross-cut 32 , area already known as bad top and had already been dangered off , fall found during aaa inspection . 40' x 40' x 10 ' thick . area has been cribbed off .
employee was barring fine ore bin on the mill floor to get it into proper alignment and pulled a tendon in his right shoulder .
removing a table and vice from a drill platform . removing the top t bolt and was starting to remove the bottom t bolt , when the vice rotated and pinched the employee's finger between the vice and the bolt . requiring nine stitches to close the wound to the tip of right middle finger . an x-ray showed no fracture . the employee was released on restricted duty .
employee was troubleshooting air conditioning unit on mobile equipment . he had blower cover off to check voltage . with the cover still off , he reached his hand down to determine if the blower was blowing cool air and stuck his hand in the moving blower fan .
employee was pulling   j   hooks from the loadout tunnel chute . he turned to the right and lost his footing , causing his right ankle to roll in . resulting in a sprain of the right ankle .
the victim was observing a auto stretch film operate to determine why the knife was not cutting the film when he went to check the knife because it was jammed . before de-energizing the equipment or checking for stored energy the victim unjammed the blade from the guard causing the knife to cut his thumb and thumb nail requiring 3 stitches .
injured man pinched his hand between the manlift basket railing and a metal beam . operator was looking at wheels of manlift to fit into small opening . injured man was watching operator rather than observing his environment . had hand placed outside basket .
employee bounced in his mucker and experienced back pain . a doctor took him off work until follow-up examination .
employee stated that he was putting together 4 inch water line , and as he was clamping a coupling together the clamp sprung back and hit the index finger knuckle and middle finger knuckle of his left hand , employee stated that he was wearing his gloves .
employee was removing an airlock using a hydraulic platform . airlock and platform fell back pinning employee's ankle to floor .
employee pulled a muscle while installing a new loader seat in a loader in the shop . he did not know it was strained until the next day . he complained of shoulder pain and went to the doctor .
he was using a grinder on a d-9 dozer , when the grinder kicked back and struck him on the left hand , causing a laceration that required 4 sutures .
employee was removing a tooth from the ripper of a d-11 dozer when a piece of metal flew off striking him in his right leg . employee spent one night in hospital while metal was removed .
employee was cutting a section of fabric to protect mine phone . as employee proceeded , the knife penetrated the fabric , cutting through employee's glove , resulting in a cut that required sutures .
spraying belt dressing he got too close and got his fingers caught in the pulley . lost 2 fingers .
unintentional roof fall occurred in e-9a mains in n-3 entry 2 breaks inby spad 9729. fall measured 18' wide x 4' long x 15' high . fall extended on 12/30/03 for an additional 8 ' in length . the continuation   partially blocked the primary intake escapeway for the 007-0 mobile mining unit . production was stopped and those affected were withdrawn until the escapeway could be re-established after about 1 hr
roof fall was found one break inby spad # 22440. fall was 20 ' wide x 150 ' long x 6 ' thick . slate top approximately   3500 ' from section . fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was changing bearings on nose ring fan number 2 kiln , he had one bearing off working on 2nd . he hit it with a sledge hammer sending broken of bearing housing flying up and hit him in the mouth .
employee stated that he was using a slate bar to pry a feeder drive sprocket into the scoop bucket . while doing this he felt pain in his lower back .
the miner was assisting in the installation of a heintzmann beam when it fell from the king rail and struck in on the left hand breaking one of his fingers .
the continuous miner was backing up after cutting the bottom for clearance . employee bent down to pull the cable back with the miner , then started feeling pain . he finished the shift . he went to the doctor on 1-22-01. he began missing work then .
employee was changing out the valve bank on number 101 shield f-10 off 3 north longwall face when a 1/2 '' ball valve blew apart and struck him on the left index and middle fingers resulting in a fracture to the left middle finger .
employee states scaling number 3 pump in 340. air line had caustic in it and blew onto right knee . air was coming from exhaust port on scaling gun .
a roof fall was discovered at 3 x 2 cross-cut , number 21 block ( 150 ' outby the feeder ) . the area was bolted with 6 ' supertwist bolts . no people , equipment , or ventilation was affected .
hand scaling out of manlift . large loose fell onto manlift boom . boom and gasket were pushed downby the weight of the rock and then catapulted employee into the back . employee hit back with head ( hard hat had fallen off ) causing 3 laceration to the top of his skull
the fall was at survey station number 317 in the number 7 entry , 1800 ft from the face . the fall was 5 ft in height , 20 ft in width and 60 ft in length . the fall will not be cleaned up . the entrance to the fall is dangered off and supported as per roof control plan .
employee was tightening a ratchet strap , the strap slipped off and hit employee in the face causing a laceration to employee's chin which required several stitches .
on 10/10/06 , employee filled out a minor injury report on his shoulder . employee has continued to work without missing any scheduled shifts . on 11/07/06 , employee saw a physician for his shoulder . this resulted in restricted duty days , making this accident reportable .
potential work related hearing loss greater than 25 db from baseline conducted in 1997. right ear 4000 hz - 25 db shift . left ear 3000 hz - 47 db ; 4000 hz - 25db shift . employee has worked as a mill hand , working around milling equipment . hearing protection provided . employee is enrolled in our hearing conservation program .
employee was breaking refractory with a pry bar inside the opening of a holding vessel . the refractory broke off the vessel and struck him on the top of his left hand resulting in a laceration . he worked the following day and in the afternoon he reported his hand was swollen . he was transported to the local medical facility emergency room where he was given antibiotics . returned to work
employee was helping to move energized trail cable behind shovel and stepped on a rock causing employee to sprain left ankle . employee did not use any type of illumination to assist employee to locate any dangers
as employee was climbing off his loader , his foot slipped on the steps , causing him to fall , hitting the ground .
employee was unlatching clean out door for collector dust pipe . when cleanout pipe unlatched , the weight of the material forced the door to drop pinching employee's hand between the door and metal   deflecting chute , cutting employee's left thumb .
employee was hanging miner cable and wire broke , letting cable strike employee across back .
employee was helping shift mechanic put bumper on 11 cm ; mechanic hit keeper pin with a 4 lb   hammer . this caused a piece of metal to come off pin head and fly into employee's neck .
employee was trying to get pipe fitting off of pipe , hit pipe off concrete . pipe bounced up and hit him in the mouth .
employee alleges to contracting coal workers ' pneumoconiosis as a result of his employment with apogee coal and was granted a 20 % ppd award by the west virginia op board
employee dropped a micon drill and struck his leg and foot .
employee was working on shuttle car conveyor . the employee had gotten the conveyor back in place and upon attempting to drive the pin strap over the pins he struck his left pinky finger with a ball peen hammer .
employee was installing a roof bolt . his glove became caught by the bolter wrench and his hand then hit the roof plate , cutting his fingers .
while grinding metal box , employee felt object enter eye , metal caused discomfort to employee later in the day and was removed in emergency room . employee stated he was wearing safety glasses   .
employee was crossing the belt structure and strained his right knee . began missing on 2/24/00 .
employee injured left calf muscle while performing routine duties . while holding grease-gun in employee's right hand , employee proceeded to step onto the lower step of the inspection platform . as employee mounted the step , while pushing up with left leg employee felt a pop and immediately experienced a burning sensation in left calf muscle .
while disconnecting plant recirculating pump for repair , employee strained his chest wall . employee went to see company doctor on 3/14/02 and was placed on restricted duty .
injured was a passenger in a mantrip which struck a roof jack which was installed in concrete along the travelway . the corner of the bumper caught the jack causing the injured to strike employee's knee against the dash of the mantrip .
the mantrip derailed at 12 break and hit the rib inby the corner and spun around and hit corner with left side of mantrip , thus spinning until rear of mantrip was facing out by . there were 7 employees in mantrip, 5 were transported to hospital with 2 being held overnight for observation. 1 suffered a broken shin and dislocated ankle , the other a laceration to the head
employee was operating a joy 21sc shuttle car in the number 2 entry , two cross-cuts inby spad 12473 traveling towards the face . when the sc hit a hole in the roadway , the impact jarred his back resulting in pain in his lower back and hip area . employee's first day away from work was january 8 , 2003 .
employee stated while throwing a rail switch he felt pain in his upper back and neck . employee was placed on light duty by a doctor .
a roof fall occurred on number 1 unit , number 2 entry , cross-cut 42 last open . length 25 ' x width 17.5 ' x thick 12 ' . the roof was bolted with 6 ' point anchor .
belt 2 stopped for unknown reason , causing friction which severed the belt . this friction resulted in a fire around the nelson drive . fire was extinguished with fire extinguishers . mine belt was   severed and a new one will be installed .
employee was scraping out bucket of front end loader , when his scraper struck some harder , compacted material . this caused his arm to stop short , at which time , he felt a slight twinge in his right elbow . reported to bussen office 4/30/07 1st treatment 4/30/07
employee tripped in door trench in back of shop while exiting the building . his knee swelled immediately . he did not want to go to the doctor at that time , but will leave early to ice and elevate the leg , stating he had surgery some years ago on this knee . if not better over the weekend he said he would seek medical attention .
the welder was carrying an 8 lb bearing sleeve . he turned sideways to enter a doorway and he stepped down at the same time ( approximately   16 '' ) to the next level . he then felt a sharp pain in his low emergency room back . he has received three chiropractic treatments since 12-26-01. no restrictions .
employee was roof bolting the mine roof when he was struck in the left hand by the drill steel when the insert broke . employee completed his shift but later was examined by a physician at summersville memorial hospital and was placed on modified duty for one week with no use of his left hand . this is a reportable only injury with no lost time due to incident .
on 9/5/07 employee was in the process of refueling a compactor . he strained his left shoulder while removing the fuel nozzles . he continued to work until 11/1/07 at which time he began missing work due to pain in left shoulder .
employee was pumping barges and while moving pump he pulled a muscle in his lower back .
truck driver got off her truck at the end of the shift and realized she had left her bag in the cab , and remounted the truck . as she dismounted she slipped from the ladder , then noticed pain and swelling in her knee . she saw her physician later that day , prescribed a knee brace , referred to a specialist and was given light duty . currently ongoing
employee was removing leg transducer on shield and had cut the pressure valve off and was reaching for the valve when it blew off and was hit in the face with high pressure soluble oil .
victim was operating roof bolter and while swinging boom out a piece of rock fell from between installed bolts striking him on the back .
employee was using an 8 pound sledgehammer to remove bolts from a tank flange . the hammer handle knocked the employee's hard hat and monogoggles off and at that moment a drop of caustic got into his left eye . this resulted in irritation of his left eye . an ophthamologist prescribed pain medication and an antibiotic for the prevention of infection .
employee was changing out pump on fuel truck when he slipped and fell causing injury to right cheek and forehead .
employee helping put crib blocks under a feeder to replace crawler lift jack pin . he stood up to go around to other side , tripped over a crib . he fell striking his right knee against a rock 1 '' x 10 '' . he continued to work until 3-2-02 when he went to charlston area medical center for high blood pressure . doctor noticed knee and suggested specialist . has not seen specialist , no medical treatment or lost time as of yet
employee opened heavy equipment compartment door , felt popping sensation and pain in right shoulder . first aid until 11/20/2012 ; confirmation of positive mri for minor shoulder tear .
employee has hearing loss under south dakota workers compensation . employee filed claim upon retirement .
he was replacing grease line on baghouse discharge screw conveyor . baghouse flushed causing lime to shoot out through hole in lid , striking him in the face .
employee was roof bolting and was in the process of drilling a hole . when he went to remove his steel the steel came out of the drill chuck and pinned his left pinky finger between the jaws and the steel , which resulted in a laceration to the finger . sutures were required to close the laceration . employee resumed his regular duties 2/27/02 .
employee were repositioning the trommel to complete a repair . as the trommel moved , the feed chute for the trommel swung down and struck the employee on the arm knocking the employee to the ground . this fractured the employee arm is several places as well as lacerating it . first aid was administered on site , emergency services were called and employee was taken to the hospital .
employee turned a nut to remove a filter bag in the pellet plant . the employee felt pain in right shoulder . an mri revealed tendinosis of the supraspinatus tendon and degenerative enthesopathy of the humerus along with osteoarthritis . the employee's diagnosis was rotator cuff tendinopathy , a disease of the tendon , resulting in a referral to physical therapy .
employee was walking around fueling station to do some clean-up and twisted his right ankle . he said no specific cause and the ground was level . our safety director spoke with a coder at mine safety and health administration office of injury and employment information on 4/6/06 about incident and was told it would not be reportable . site was inspected on 4/25/06 and mine safety and health administration inspector told plant manager that 7000-1 must be completed .
employee was carrying a bag of rock dust . he stepped on uneven ground and twisted his left knee . results of mri shows torn meniscus . results came back to mine on 4/12/12 .
employee was traveling on haul road after dumping load of washed stone . he reached to pick up a clipboard . when he raised up , m he was traveling toward rail cars . he struck 2 parked rail cars .
employee was lifting a hauler transmission mounting bracket when he experienced pain in his left side . employee's first day of restrictive duty was 9-11-02 .
employee was operating a battery powered personnel carrier and ran over a rock in haulway causing the steering wheel to quickly spin and the hand knob strike his right hand and wrist .
after making several trips up and down stariways to dust collectors , employee began to feel pain under his left knee cap area .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 5 entry of x-butt near spad # 10,117. cribs and gob were removed to prepare to build seals when the fall was discovered . the fall area was 4 feet in height and 40 feet in length . affected area is being cleaned up and re-bolted .
a roof fall occurred on the 3c belt number 4 entry cross-cut 8. length 20 ' x width 18 ' x thickness 10 ' . the roof was supported with 6 ' point anchor ( doublelock ) bolts .
employee bounced hard hat off of a headache rack in left-hand drive . had pain in left shoulder and neck . originally , this was only a minor injury report . he has since sought physical therapy .
employee stepped off scoop and twisted his knee and foot . x-rays revealed a broken bone in his foot . no surgery required , only a cracked bone , but will be off regular duty for a few weeks .
employee was working underneath boom truck , when he started to get to his feet he heard a pop and began to experience back pain . he was transported to hospital ; and xrays revealed a broken rib ( rib number 10 right ) .
a roof fall occurred on the main south roadway at cross-cut 47. the cause of the fall was a slip . mine safety and health administration was notified immediately and the fall will be cleaned up and re-supported .
employee was operating a roofbolter . a rock fell while he was setting his first bolt and cut his left forearm requiring stitches .
the continuous miner was stuck , was placing 4 ' x 8 '' crib block under the tracks of the continuous miner for traction , employee picked up a crib block and pulled his back .
injured was in the process of swinging his boom out when a piece of rock fell striking him on the arm causing a laceration requiring stitches .
employee was cutting a piece of 2 '' x 4 '' on table saw . when piece kicked back , fingers on left hand were cut by saw blade .
employee was in the crusher control house when he stepped out to walk down the stairs , reached the ground and twisted right ankle .
employee was hanging outby end of wing curtain in number 6 entry . left bolter was in last open between 6-7. bolter cable was hung across number 6 entry over head of helper where he was hanging curtain . bolter operator   started his machine not knowing his reel was engaged . cable pulled loose from wire it was hung with knocking employee to ground . he fell on his right hand , injuring his thumb .
employee climbed onto a 14 ft metal/fiberglass ladder positioned against a connex . employee was tying off the ladder when the ladder slipped , but it did not fall . employee fell approximately 4 ft to the ground sustaining a fractured right wrist and shoulder . medical assistance was immediately summoned . employee was treated and transported .
we were notified by mine safety and health administration about the part 90 miner and was unaware that we needed to complete a 7000-1 form until now . we apologize for it being late .
employee alleged on 8/28/14 a repetitive task induced illness caused by hand shaking material samples . employee received test results on 10/14/14 revealing moderate carpal tunnel syndrome in both wrists . employee was released to work with no restrictions given at this time .
at 6:31 am an explosion occurred behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . mine safety and health administration , state and company have initiated investigation but results not yet available .
helping place power box , he left work with back pain . had surgery 6 months prior to this date . visited clinic where original surgery performed ; taken off work and scheduled for follow-up . doctor unsure if new or old injury . referred to another doctor ; had a series of exams performed . 6/22/06 received email stating that evaluation indicated `` right lumbar radiculopathy '' .
injured employee met with foreman prior to going to plant to assist in removing shaker guard to replace drive belts injured employee told foreman that morning that his back hurt he though that it was possible his kidneys , but he would be able to work the day . just after removing guard , employee now claims he strained back in same area of initial pain . injured employee on light duty
employee was dragging cable for a power move on 3rd shift and his back made contact with a damaged pin plate that was hanging down . he received a laceration on his back that required 16 stitches .
on 2-26-09 employee was struck by a piece of coal which may have aggravated a previous neck surgery . employee went off work 7-13-09 for surgery . after a review of all of the doctors reports it has been determine that the second surgery was required because of an aggravation . the difference between the accident date and reporting date was pending the final review of his surgery .
employee was lifting a wear plate and hurt his lower back .
the employee was carrying a kennedy jack on shoulder , stepped into a muddy rut and twisted left knee . an initial report was filed but no medical action was taken until 7-11-16 when the employee complained that their knee was bothering them . employee was taken to the emery medical   clinic where they were given a knee brace and a prescription for a topical ointment resulting in a reportable .
injured riding in open top mantrip coming out of the mine when a piece of draw rock fell out and struck him on right forearm - cutting right forearm requiring stitches .
employee bent over to pick up a crib block and hit his head on a 4 '' pipe that was suspended approximately   4-1/2 ' . note : personnel files not available at this time due to emergency evacuation of bldg . miners cert # and job/mine/mining experience not available .
employee was making a splice on some cable . while skinning the cable , his utility knife slipped and cut his right hand between the thumb and index finger .
an employee with 2 years mining experience and 1 week at sidebolt was operating a stockpile truck at the plant . when employee opened door of truck his left hand made contact with a roll pin that attached the handle to the door . the pin head was mushroomed and caused a small laceration . employee received 3 stitches and was released with no work restrictions .
cut out the tailgate headed back to the headgate ; there was a rock lying on the bretby channel up on the top of pan . employee went to move rock ; as he grabbed it to put it into the conveyor he felt pain on his left side upper abdominal area .
employee was shoveling at the 15 west belt pony drive when he twisted and felt pain in the left lower side and pain down the left leg . employee continued to work until 6/7/10 went off work due to this injury .
the injured was tramming the miner out of the number 4 entry face cross-cut in the first panel south on the number 1 unit after finishing a cut and was struck by a piece of rock that fell out from between the rib and outside pin on the intake side of the entry . the rock struck his lower back .
a roof fall occurred on the number 1 unit in the number 6 entry in the last open cross-cut at spad 12 and 15 to 13 in the third north panel off the third east . roof fall was 18 ' wide , 50 ' long , 15 ' high .
there was a unplanned roof fall on number 3 unit intake at spad 16+60/8
employee stated while holding ladder for worker hanging cable ( high voltage cable ) ladder wobbled and employee holding ladder strained right arm . employee started missing work on 1/20/05 .
there was a fall in the 2nd main east , at spad 102+20 between the 5 and 6 entries . the fall is 14 feet wide , 78 feet long and 14 feet high .
employee was shoveling coal and dirt when he felt a pain in his upper back .
miner was welding on a piece of steel in the shop . employee removed gloves and walked around the welding table to reposition leads . then went back to the steel to slide it around and burned hand on a hot weld .
employee was performing maintenance on dredge ladder pump . employee slipped and cut right shin on crossmember of dredge ladder . injury required 9 stitches .
reportable only due to stitches : employee was bent over ramcar moving miner cable and a rock rolled off ramcar , striking employee on the left lower arm and hand .
employee closed the door of the loader on his thumb and smashed it .
1b supply rd . 1st southwest submains between cross-cut 10 and 11 . 60= cross cuts outby number 1 unit . 45 long x 20 wide x 7 thick . ventilation , equipment and personal were not effected .
employee leaned forward to pull air hose that had become entangled in wall-mounted hose reel . as the employee yanked on the hose , the reel handle spun up and struck the employee in the mouth . the contact resulted in a cut to the right lower lip . employee received 4 sutures from local emergency room .
awarded claim by west virginia bureau of employment programs stating approval for application for noise induced hearing loss .
employee was working with air hammer . he removed his glove to get a better grip and over a period of time froze his hand .
while working on a 6 vdc battery , tool contacted both positive and negative posts causing one cell to arc and spray battery acid into eye .
using slate bar on stuck pin , pin was lodged very tight and had to be removed with loader . sometime after removing pin , employee felt a stinging on exterior of stomach .
removing reverse ribbon screw it rolled pinching finger sutures required
a roof fall occurred in the 4 north panel , number 8 entry , starting at the inby edge of the intersection of cross-cut number 59 and ending at the outby edge of the intersection of cross-cut # 61. the fall measured approximately 60' x 19' x 5 ' . the roof was supported with 5 ' fully grouted bolts . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall .
employee was shoveling around tailpiece - handle of shovel caught little finger of left hand against metal frame of tailpiece . this resulted in finger nail being partly torn .
pry bar hit right   hand . he was turning rock , when it turned , whipped bar from hand and it came back and hit right   hand . fracture right   long finger .
a winter storm hit the area around the mine . employees were instructed to leave the mine site . employee was leaving the portal area . he was walking down the road from the portal to his truck . he slipped and fell due to the ice and snow causing an injury to his right wrist .
a roof fall above the anchorage of the installed roof bolts was found mine the mine examiner . the fall was approximately 20 ft wide by 20 ft in length by 6 ft in height . the area of the fall was in the intake airway but did not effect the escapeway .
employee stated he was getting out of coal hauler when he twisted his left knee .
employee was closing the service cage door at the shaft collar when the top latch struck the header knocking some material loose from the ledge above ( salt dust/dirt ) . this material fell onto his face   and slid into his left eye . he immediately flushed his left eye but still felt pain , so we took him to hospital . the physician did not find anything but gave him prescriptions , which he to
a mccarter electric employee ( id # f880 ) used the improper meter to test phase rotation on a live circuit . the meter that was used was not designed to be used with live voltage . the meter short circuited causing a flash that burned employee's eyes .
excavator was loading truck . hose busted , causing excavator bucket to fall in bed of truck . the weight of bucket in bed raised the truck , then the front of the truck came back down causing a jar in cab of truck . it was a pc 2000 komatsu excavator .
employee's were using a magnetic drill that was positioned about chest high to the employee that got injured . the drill bit seized and the magnetic drill bar came loose and turned one full revolution before co ming to a stop . as the drill bas swung around it caught the injured employee's left hand between the drill base and the corner of the piece that was being drilled . this resulted in a crush injury to employee '
power kicked off number 43 hoist . mine safety and health administration was notified . hoist repaired and back in service at 12:45 pm
employees were flipping hammers at a horizontal crusher - stedman crusher . while flipping hammers , you have to move them to align them up . employee caught middle finger under hammer with gloves on . employee never looked till break time at approximately 9:00 to check out his finger . employee reported right away .
employee was dismounting off of a 235c rock breaker , when he stepped off the rock breaker he stepped onto same small stones , which caused him to twist his ankle and foot .
employee was bringing parts into the mill on line 17 primary mill . while sending parts into the mill he bumped his knee on the feed trunnion . he suffered strain to his knee his on restricted duty .
employee operating loader , inadvertently loader bucket struck rock debris pile , causing loader to abruptly stop . operator was gripping steering wheel with both hands , causing a slight impact affecting wrists of operator ; wearing seatbelt . operator remained in full duty work as per doctor . as of early april , employee received minor physical therapy for wrist discomfort .
employee received a laceration to finger when reaching for support on a pm4 box while stepping from panline . small bur on pm4 box caused laceration .
employees were working on a dragline under construction . three employees were moving 36 '' x 36 '' x 1 '' plate on the house floor . employee flipped plate and floor plate gave way . injured employee and another , fell approximately   7 foot . injured employee received sutures on elbow .
a roof fall occurred in the number 3 entry ( primary escapeway ) of the 9i section at 19 stopping ( station # 47.50 ) . the fall was 35 ft long , 16 ft wide and approximately   12 ft high .
man was trying to get a not out the socket on an impact wrench . wrench had airline connected . man's right hand contacted trigger on wrench and spun the not up to the 2nd joint of his left index finger .
did not start losing time until 6/4/01 . strained lower back lifting discharge hose from rockdust tank .
employee was dropping a hose when a rib fell . he put his arm up to block it and it struck his right wrist .
employee was climbing down from a digger he was washing when he accidentally grasped the control that activates a hydraulic jack . when the jack lifted up , it pinched his left ankle .
employee was bolting when the rib spilled striking employee on back and shoulders .
employee was installing a roof bolt and his hand was on the bolt when rotation began . his glove caught between the drill pod and the head of the bolt . employee sustained lacerations to the left middle and ring fingers .
employee was installing a rear gear on the end of a camshaft . he missed the punch with a hammer and hit his hand on stud between the middle and ring finger . he was taken to local medical facility . hand was soaked in antibiotic liquid , x-ray taken , and given a tetanus shot . employee was given prescription for antibiotics and released to full time non restricted work .
employee was unclogging a chute at head pulley of conveyor # 1. the prybar which employee was using slipped and pinched finger against chute lip .
while tying shoe laces a small piece of rock fell striking employee on hand .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the mine no . 5. , cross-cut 38 , number 2 and 3 entries , 3rd west headgate 6212w . the fall was approximately 20' long x 18' wide x 10-12' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee twisted his right knee while turning corner while walking along walkway constructed of steel grating . the sprain resulted in restrictive duties .
employee was bolting in 6 right when a piece of rock approximately 24 '' x 3 '' x 2 '' fell from the rib striking employee on the lower back . employee was treated by emergency medical technicians at the scene and transported by whitesville ambulance to charlston area medical center general division . employee had xrays taken which was negative but was referred to a spine specialist for further treatment .
employee was pushing an oil pipe inside the k-3 burner . the pipe flipped and crushed his right hand index finger .
unintentional roof fall occurred on main first right in number 6 entry near spad # 833. it was 40 ' ( long ) x 10 ' ( wide ) x 5 ' ( high ) .
employee was working on the 1800 screening plant when he removed a rock from the tail pulley . the belt rolled back and caught his left hand in the pulley . he then used his right hand to push another employee out of the way , straining his right shoulder . employee started receiving physical therapy on his right shoulder 07/28/2010 . turning this into a medical treatment .
employee was changing grease barrel - 120 lb . can on auger . employee lifted grease pump out of empty barrel and felt something pull in his back . this employee has a history of back problems pre-employment . he has had back surgery and should not of been lifting anything that heavy .
employee was pulling on a 1 1/4 '' rubber water hose to clean up spillage in surge tunnel . his foot slipped in the mud causing him to fall to the ground . it was raining at the time of the accident .
employee was assisting in changing the 12 '' flex coupling on the dredge suction . the safety cable broke the coupling struck him in the chest . he landed on his left knee . ( he had previous surgery on   his knee predating his employment .
while cutting a smaller piece from a sheet of aluminum , the metal aluminum piece that employee was using as a guide slipped and hit him in the front of the face . he was using his safety equipment .
pressure bounce occurred between 16 north and 15 north bleeder for 17 north longwall , mobile mining unit 010 , causing floor heave and damage to regulators in bleeder .
injured employee was walking by refuse vessel screen and stepped off a 3-4 inch drop off and `` tweaked '' middle back . reported as a file only initially and modified to an lost time accident on 08/02/2018 .
two employees were moving a power cable for an undercutter by way of tractor . one employee was watching the cable at the machine . the employee pulling the cable dropped off the wrong strap to add slack . when he took off again the power cable and cable swing arm pinched the employee against the back of the cutter .
an ignition occurred on the 003 section while retreat mining . the continuous miner was cutting the number 42 lift ( in accordance with the plan ) and holed through into a previously mined lift when the ignition occurred . employee's in the area stated that they saw a flash in the area of the miner head . the roof consisted of massive sandstone , and bits striking the roof may have created a spark .
employee was retrieving 1 x 1 screens in shaker box that had fallen during the night shift . while in box , employee slipped and fell with left elbow absorbing the blow . slopes of the box and dampness were causes of fall .
employee was getting into a breakcar when he slipped and caught himself with his right arm and twisted his arm as he fell . restricted duty injury 11/25/08 .
employee was laying on his side , pulling on a 36 '' pipe wrench to remove a pipe nipple and he strained his right   shoulder and upper arm .
setting screens in place when one screen slipped , catching employee's left middle finger between the two screens , employee was wearing gloves .
employee was positioning a piece of steel when it fell and pinched his left ring finger resulting in stitches .
worker was trying to separate stacked conveyor cover supports . the supports were still stacked from delivery . while attempting to separate the first two supports , the supports snapped back to the original position causing a fracture to his left middle finger . his finger nail was torn off as he quickly pulled his hand away .
employee was lifting left leg up to get in mantrip and twisted lower back . this is a reoccurence of an existing back injury .
lost footing on wet platform , slipped and reached for vertical post , hooked arm at bend of elbow . employee stated employee had injury to left arm .
a roof fall was discovered 1 cross-cut inby spad 4512 in the number 5 entry which is the neutral . the fall did not affect persons , equipment nor ventilation . the fall was approximately   20 ' x 20 ' x 8' high . the fall was dangered and timbered off .
walking beside the roof bolter and a piece of rock fell and hit employee on the head and fell striking him on the right forearm . laceration with sutures working with sutures
the mentioned employee strained his back while unloading supplies . ( bags of rock dust ) . strain
a roof fall occurred in the 1 main east in the intersection of number 4 entry at cross-cut number 12 and extended part of the way through the pillar line between number 4 entry and number 5 entry measuring approximately 40 ft . x 19 ft . x 6 ft . the area was supported with 6 foot tension rebar bolts . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall . this area was mined in february 2004 .
employee was building a road pushing trees over in an open cab john deere 550 dozer when a tree branch entered the cab and pinched his left hand against the control lever .
while walking away from pre-heat tower , employee felt his foot roll over . he was walking towards motor control center of control room . employee wasn't sure , he didn't feel that he stepped on a rock .
left in coal buggie , a buggie of rock was dumped into slope buggie . ladder was forgotten about causing the rock to jam on tipple chute when buggie was dumped into chute outside . foreman then stood on side of rock truck to poke up at jammed ladder and rock with mine board causing rock to slide down board knocking foreman down along side of rock truck .
employee was grinding kiln shell when grinder jumped back and lacerated employee's thigh .
while standing on a 4 foot ladder at 2 belt head , employee was using a wrench to tighten fitting on water deluge system and wrench slipped , and he fell off ladder hurting back and left shoulder   , resulting in bruises and strain .
bretby came out of the cable tray , employee stop shearer and replaced the bretby . when handling bretby , the pin retraining the hoop cut employee left hand , employee stayed on the job .
states , he was replacing cross shaft bearing with split type and was lifting bearing in place when he started hurting in ( left ) back and groin .
this report is being submitted for the sole purpose of abating violation number 7098808 , event # 4054919. employee allegedly suffered flash burn to both eyes when roof pan ( pie pan ) contacted the trolley wire . the reportability of this alleged incident is being contested .
helping to pull merrick stone belt through roller . note : this accident was not reported earlier because we did not know that surgery would be involved , or any lost time .
three miners were traveling underground in a utv . the driver pulled the utv into a cross-cut to allow traffic to pass when the utv tipped onto the left side . the miner in back was bracing his left foot against the side of the utv ; when his foot slipped his leg was pinned under the left side of the utv resulting in a fractured tibia .
employee was carrying 2 pallets of refractory brick on forklift . forks were elevated while he was backing up with load . forklift tilted forward due to heavy load causing bricks to slide off forks and employee was thrown from inside forklift cab to the ground . employee was not wearing seatbelt inside forklift .
employee strained his left knee after jumping from a catwalk when the ex1000 hitachi shovel caught fire .
truck driver picking up load on site . ( not mine employee - employed by contractor . ) driver was tarping the load and fell off onto the ground . driver was not using fall protection harnesses which are provided .
member was loading 2 '' high pressure hose on mantrip end of hose slipped and smashed ring finger on left hand .
employee was installing new screens on an inclined screening unit . in process of pounding in screen wedge keepers said employee strained his right shoulder and right arm causing tendonitis .
employee slipped while working on kiln pier base and hit right shoulder . he initially declined treatment but after one week was feeling pain and was sent to the clinic . he was then put on light duty with   bruised shoulder . he was returned to work with restrictions of lifting no more than 5 lbs and not raising shoulders above head .
roof fall approximately   20 ft wide x 60 ft long x unknown height in number   5 entry 130 ft inby survey station number   599 .
while working as stargo tankhouse , the employee slipped and struck a beam with his right shin .
employee was mounting a rock truck , first step was a cable step , employee placed right   foot on step then put his weight on the step . when doing so the step swung causing pain in right   knee .
the employee was installing roof support to the roof when a rock ( 18 '' by 10 '' by 0.0 '' to 0.5 ) fell and struck him in the upper left arm . number 1 until , number 7 room , just inby 12+60 spad number . first aid was given to the employee and he was taken outside for further treatment . he was given 5 stitches .
( lost time accident ) : unit number 1 - employee alleges while walking in number 9 entry , twisted left knee . mri revealed medial meniscus tear requiring surgery . employee reported similar injury 3 weeks prior .
employee was applying stone on travelway with scoop when side of scoop opposite the operators compartment sank in a soft spot , thus permitting the operators side to raise and in doing so employee   struck head against roof as well as a roof bolt . employee received staples for laceration .
on 11-16-07 , around 6:30 am a roof fall was discovered at number 9 break on number 1 belt line . the fall measure 4' x 18' x 18 ' . no injuries were reported as a result of this roof fall .
on sunday may 25th employee was working in clinker cooler and got clinker dust in eyes . off may 26th . may 27th employee's   right eye lid felt irritated so he was sent to the doctor the doctor saw nothing in his eye   and prescribed drops for irritation . may 28th irritation had cleared up .
employee reported a 4 '' pvc plastic discharge line hung along side a conveyer belt had got into a bottom roller and was partially cut into , when he was examining the damage to the water line , the water line broke in two , one end flew up striking victim's forehead , resulting in a mild concussion .
the cone and conveyor shut off . crew cleaned conveyor and tail pulley off . foreman asked if everyone was ready to start up . plant man when to his station and foreman to his . foreman made eye contact with injured . the plant man started his conveyor and foreman started his conveyor then turned to make sure all conveyors were moving . did not see injured so shut down equipment .
employee was installing races into 785 wheel hub with press . race was going in crooked . took 2 hammers and was using them to straighten the race when apiece of a hammer came off and hit him . metal embedded   into left side of head near temple .
while dumping scrap from a hopper into a dumpster , employee cut finger .
employee was helping install filter cloth around the impoundment . he put his hands under a roll of filter cloth to lift it up . a copperhead snake bit him on the left hand through his leather glove .
during routine inspection of the emergency air shaft conveyance hoist , it was discovered that the emergency brake release witch was out of adjustment and rope slack device was tripped , rendering   the hoist inoperable .
hot thickner pump had plugged and the employee was in the process of disassembling the pump to clear debris from the impellor . the pump had been blocked both at inlet and discharge , the isolated area had been drain and flushed repeatedly . however , material buildup in the isolated area rushed out unexpectedly , burned the employee's hand and a small spot on the neck .
employee was placing 105 lb . spreader bar and dump block pins into pin hole and the pin slid into place faster than expected crushing employee's left tip of ring finger between the pin head and the dump block.
injured party was standing in mud and water about a foot deep trying to hookup a supply trailer when a prop was shoved against the injured party left ankle .
initial audiometric test indicated a reportable standard threshold shift shift . retest was conducted , but results were invalid . standard threshold shift shift is being reported at this time and baseline will be revised .
employee was tightening a bolt with his wrench when the wrench fell . the employee bent over to pick up the wrench and experienced back pains as he was bending over . the employee was treated at the local medical clinic and returned to work with work restrictions .
employee was standing on some rocks at the tub of the 1370 dragline . he was assisting in removing grease from around the circle rail in order for weld repairs to begin . he was standing on rocks to st ay out of some water that was pooled at base of tub due to heavy rain . employee slipped off on of the rocks . employee had on rubber boots .
the employee was in the process of hanging high voltage cable at the end of a section power center on a grade . the employee slip and in process grabbed hold of a 4 inch hanger resulting in a laceration to the ring finger on the right hand .
employee stated that while putting a screen under the raw coal belt he felt pain in his lower back .
he was trying to lay the vertical silencer down so they could clean it . the silencer swung side ways pinching his arm against a beam . he has crushing injury to his muscles and tendons .
roof bolter operator was breaking the bands from a bundle of roofbolts , when one of the bands snapped back and cut his wrist on his right arm . the cut was relatively small and compresses and bandages were applied to the cut to stop the bleeding .
while maneuvering the 4 wheel personnel carrier in to tight area the front wheel contacted the coal rib causing the steering wheel to spin uncontrollable striking employee on the right index finger .
the miner was de-energized . employee was moving cables to prepare to cut a corner. he put the rope on the bolt on top of the j hook and went outby the miner. he started the miner and the rope slipped off and he leaned in to pick the rope up and was pinned against the rib with the boom of the miner. he freed himself and walked to the front of the miner .
south mains 34 block number 10 heading mobile mining unit 006 - 4 way intersection 8 ft high x 20 ft wide x 20 ft long . type of support : 6 ft resin bolts 6 '' x 6 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof   supports set around fall
employee was welding ( maintenance ) @ riprap plant when experienced irritation in his right eye . employee went to exam eye , flushed it with saline solution , found small particle on cornea . after an unsuccessful attempt at removing the particle , management sent employee to an eye care professional for removal . the particle was small piece of rust embedded in the cornea .
approximately 5 tons of rock material fell onto the 2 main heading approximately 2400 ' in by of portal number 10 blocking truck traffic through this heading . mine safety and health administration inspector investigated the accident on the morning of 7/13/10 . there were no injuries as a result of this incident .
employee was descending from top of a vessel being cleaned , when he slipped on the wet surface and fell approximately 3 feet to the floor level , hitting his side on a protruding pipe flange and breaking two ribs .
employee was standing on a crane on the left rear side by the hydraulic tank working on the hydraulic lines . he lost his footing , slipped and fell 5 feet to the ground .
employee was roof bolting on 3/19/2012 . a piece of rib fell and hit his left ankle . he did not want an ambulance and just went home . the next day on 3/20/2012 at 3:30pm he went to a clinic and was diagnosed with a broken ankle . tough guy .
a mine examiner discovered an unplanned roof fall on the number 1 section ; number 6 entry ; number 10 block ; spad # g286 measuring 11 ' high x 20 ' long x 20 ' wide
climbing in number 1 ducon scrubber to clean the   j   chute , he was bruise by the door .
a plant maintenance mechanic reported that he had jammed his left elbow on a piece of steel while dismounting a haulage truck . as a precaution he was seen by a physician for observation and released   without findings . he latter reported experiencing discomfort and requested further evaluation. he was referred to an orthopedic specialist at which time he received treatment for bursitis .
employee was removing tape from wires so that they could be reconnected to circuit breaker . he was using a knife to cut and remove the tape . in this process his knife slipped as he was prying on the tape and cut his left forearm .
employee reported : attempting to unload steel continued . miner cutter motor cover from a supply basket to mine slope car . the supply basket was raised using surface fork lift . when the victim lifted the 100 lb object from the basket and   turned to place in the supply car , pain was experienced to his low back region . victim is 6'5 '' thick , weighs approximately 350 lbs , should be able to handle this load .
while employee was jackhammering a transfer chute , he lifted the jackhammer and thought he pulled a muscle in his shoulder .
employee was working with another person plastering a return stopping on the 20 west continuous miner section . the mud for plastering was in a five gallon can with the lid cut off . as he stuck his hand into the bucket , he lacerated his left forearm on the sharp edge of the cut-off lid . the laceration required six sutures .
employee was helping hang ventilation tubing . he and another employee slipped one end of the tube into the hanging tube . as the straps were being hooked up , one end of the tubing slipped out of the tube and   fell , striking employee on the thumb . resulted into a sprained thumb .
while performing routine maintenance on a conveyor then crawling out from under conveyor employee struck his head on a metal support beam employee sustained a small suture-able laceration to head
unintentional roof fall 40 ' ( long ) x19.5 ' ( wide ) x 5 ' to 6 ' ( thick ) . number 4 track entry and number 5 entry on spruce section near spad number 8696 .
removing fill hose from rock dust tank and cut his finger on the metal band on the quick coupler .
employee was carrying a bag of rock dust , when he hung his foot on a rock and strained his lower back and leg .
a sheet of scrap metal tipped over and drove a sharp point into the employee boot behind the safety toe and cut the second toe , the cut required stitches to close it .
dust blew into his eye while cleaning magnet chute in air separator building .
employee was lifting the lid on a rail car that he was loading . he felt a pull in his back , but didn't feel it necessary to see a doctor at that time . employee continued to feel soreness in lower back and saw the company doctor on 9/3/08 . doctor gave employee a lifting restriction of 15 lbs . until next appointment .
the employee stated that employee was working on a broken belt and as employee crossed the number 2 section tailpiece employee stepped down and twisted employee's ankle . employee sought medical attention and was prescribed crutches and walking boot if needed , but no restrictions . employee returned to work the next shift at full capacity . this is being reported as a medical due to the prescription .
mine foreman was conducting a weekly exam . he found a roof fall in the section return ( entry number 1 ) between spad 7+00 and 7+50 . the large horseback was at the anchorage of the 5 foot bolt . mine safety and health administration was called at 10:30 am the area was dangered off , then cribbed , and the return air was rerouted to entry number 2 .
employee was removing material from the hopper conveyor and in the process his elbow on some metal while shoveling .
employee slipped on top of bc-2 and wrenched his right   elbow trying to catch himself . he sought medical attention . on 4/22/05 .
employee pulled the tractor trailer with container up to seal placement rack . when on top of the rack there is a `` trapdoor ' in the catwalk . employee said employee placed the security hook to trap door to prevent it from falling . as employee was placing the seal lock on the manhole cover , the trap door fell down . the trap door hit employee in the back of employee's head pushing employee's forehead into the catwalk .
the number 1 mantrip was parked at end of track where men had unloaded . the park brake leaked off . the number 1 mantrip ran app 800 ' down track rounding a curve where it met number 3 mantrip traveling toward section with a crew of men . the mantrips struck each other . the impact caused a whiplash effect on men riding in number 3 causing neck and back pain .
the employee stepped on pipe in the back of the pipe truck and slipped . he fell and broke a rib on his right side .
employee was standing beside the belt drive take-up at the time of the incident . he had just helped pull the take-up roller back with a come-along . the chain on the come-along broke striking his right forearm causing two small lacerations .
employee was working on a cytec issue at 5 diluter . while swinging a hammer ( 8 lb with a long handle ) , his right pinky finger got caught between the hammer handle and piping/equipment resulting in a fractured right pinky finger .
an employee was cutting skirt board rudder with a utility knife , when employee cut employee's left index finger with the utility knife , had to get five stitches
employee was using an electric grinder on a wheel loader bucket . he was grinding rust away to install a new cutting edge . while grinding the grinder wheel caught a rise in the metal and the grinder kicked back into employee hand . his index finger was caught between the grinder wheel and the wheel guard causing a deep cut .
employee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome in both hands . his first lost work day will occur on 8-7-01 due to surgery to correct the condition .
an unplanned roof fall has occurred at 26 break . old southwest mains outby spad number 939 1 break . fall was approximately   30 to 40 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high , no injuries and the fall did not affect ventilation or travel ways
the employee was making a belt splice when a piece of metal came off the driver and went into his hand .
employee was drilling a hole . had the hole down 3 ft limerock was hard . he pushed down on drill truck . the drill truck picked up and pushed him into backhoe . coworker was on backhoe and heard injured   yell . he looked back to see what was happening and seen that injured was between the drill truck and backhoe . he then twisted backhoe away from him and then jumped off backhoe to help injured .
the 002 mobile mining unit mined into old mine working at approximately 2:00 pm , and an unplanned inundation of water occurred forcing the underground worker to retreat to the surface area . the mine map indicates that   the closest 010 works were approximately 200 ' away . this was a non-injury inundation of water .
the employee along with two other employees   were installing a cap on the end of the slurry line to the slurry cooler surge tank . the cap had been removed to keep steam from drafting through the scrubber during inspection . while replacing the cap , steam blew out of the pipe across the employee's face and arm causing burns to appear on both .
employee was installing a belly pan on the number 631 pan . belly pan slipped between chain and the pan .
employee was helping remove rocks from the primary crusher after it had plugged up with stone and dirt . as ken and another employee were trying to pick the rock up off the ground to load it into a wheelbarrow , ken strained his back muscle by trying to lift one end of the rock at an awkward position .
the cedar creek elevator was out of service from 6:53 am until 9:46 am due to an auxiliary brake contactor fault .
employee was closing a gate valve on a material chute , as employee stepped down employee lost 3 points of contact when hand slipped causing employee to fall approximately   18 '' onto the steel grating on the plant walkway . employee was treated by a physician for back bruising and placed on restricted duty - prescribed medication for pain .
putting pusher and finisher together when lever malfunctioned causing pot to keep going up and pinching hand . employee required stitches .
employee cut his thumb while pulling a broken band out of the banding tool . his thumb was sutured but he lost not time .
employee reported pain in his wrist . he was examined by the authorized provider and diagnosed with tendonitis probably due to shoveling approx . 2 weeks prior to the report . physical therapy and meds were   prescribed and adminstered . a wrist splint was provided he was released to full duty .
employee was carrying sample buckets , containing material down steps next to 806 belt . employee stepped on piece of material and turned his right ankle . employee was taken to the hospital , was treated and released   . employee is on restricted duty .
the employee was carrying out the daily garbage . as he was walking up a flight of stairs he felt a pain in his lower back .
truck hood fell on employee's left index finger tip/point . he has not returned to work as of this date and is receiving physical therapy . he lost the nail and part of the skin but there was no amputation   .
employee was replacing coupling link of armored face conveyor and cut his hand on a sharp piece of metal . reportable only due to stitches
while the victim was cleaning rock from the conveyor of the mbc that had been parked he pinched his left pointer finger between the rock he was throwing and the mine roof causing his finger to be fractured/lacerated .
injured is not sure how he hurt himself , he picked up an electric motor , used a sledge hammer to open a mill door and set his tool box in the back of a pickup . he felt pain in his neck and left shoulder when he put his tool box in the truck . he is believed to have suffered a pinched nerve in his neck .
employee was trying to untangle the miner cable . while he was pulling on the cable , he strained his groin area . employee started missing work on 1-18-05 . ( diagnosis : hernia ; surgically repaired on 1/18/05 . )
employee was with a cleanup gang . they were working on the cooler compartments . employee requested a hoe be handed to him . as he turned around to grab hold of the handle it hit him in the mouth .
at approximately 5:22am , the schindler elevator became inoperable . the elevator was intermittently stopping in the shaft with multiple fault codes . numerous connections on the elevator were cleaned and tightened . the elevator was back in operation at 9:20am .
due to a power failure employee was instructed to inspect the dust collection on mill # 2. he rapped on the dc with a rubber mallet . then he opened the conveyor below the dust collector and attempted to reach his hand under the outlet of the dust collector . his arm was caught between the flighting and the conveyor housing breaking his arm .
employee stated that while walking near the number   1 belt conveyor he stepped in a hole and twisted his knee .
an unintentional roof fall was found on mobile mining unit 002 working section in the intersection of number four entry one cross-cut inby section loading point . the fall measured approximately 8-10 ' high , 20 ' length , 20 ' width . all approaches are cribbed and dangered off . the fall will not be cleaned up .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered 2 breaks on by spad number 1484 in the number 7 entry number 15 break on the number 5 belt mains . the fall size was approx 4-5 ' high by 25 ' wide by 25 ' long. fall area had been sup ported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts . no injuries , no equipment caught , ventilation was not interrupted . fall will not be cleaned up .
employee reached inside drop caser to retrieve a jug of litter and scraped hand across jug guide . the jug guide had a very sharp edge and cut her finger . employee had de-energized equipment before trying to retrieve jug . the laceration required 7 stitches . employee returned to work with no restrictions and no medication prescribed .
a pillar fall occurred in the gob on the 001 section and rode out by the mobile roof supports approximately 15 ' .
operator had a virus with nausea and diarrhea . the reason this report is late we were trying to find out from the doctor if employee was off work because of the bump on his head or the virus , we could not get an answer .
employee was loading a big rock into a 777 hauler when the rock came out of his bucket , jarring him . employee complained of back pain and left early , but returned the following shift and worked out the week . over the weekend employee said his back worsened . he began missing work on monday july 24,2006 .
employee was using an acetylene torch to cut an access part in to conveyor airslide . sparks ignited belt no employees inured
employee was working on a conveyor from manlift basket and strained lower back while replacing a bearing on conveyor . 9/19/06 - employee had six physical therapy treatments . employee continues to perform regular duties .
on 05/27/2014 information diagnosing the employee with occupational pneumoconiosis was received by brody mining , llc .
a roof fall occurred in the 10th east , number 3 entry , number 96 cross-cut . the fall was 20 ' long , 20 ' wide , 8 ' high . the area was bolted with 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel   , damage equipment , or cause any injury .
employee informed foreman he felt a twitch in his leg but it did not hurt when it happened . when asked if he wanted to see a doctor the employee said he would wait , stating ? it could just be a pulled muscle ? . on 6/12/2008 the employee went to see a surgeon and was diagnosed with a hernia . on 6/24/2008 the injury was determined to be work related . to date the employee has not missed any time from work .
employee was stepping into passenger van , leg slipped and scraped/struck the edge of the van causing a large laceration . employee was seen at the emergency room and stitches were required to close the wound . employee put off work .
employee was dropping belt magnet . at a point the magnet tilted and employee fell . employee did have a safety lanyard on . after the accident we found the hook on the lanyard to be twisted and bent . at the point where it was hooked . employee received six broken ribs , laceration to his face and head resulting is sutures .
after installing new forks , employee used forklift to facilitate loading of damaged forks into service truck . as employee slid and shimmed the second fork into the truck , a fork on the forklift shifted , allowing the heel of the damaged fork to drop in between the forks on the forklift . as it dropped , a bur on the damaged fork caught sleeve of employee pulling arm into the crush point between forks .
fall from dragline boom resulted in broken ribs and dislocated shoulder . employee was performing routine maintenance greasing the sheaves on the gantry . the boom was lowered till the boom point was at ground level and the gantry was lowered to the boom . he walked down the boom and greased the left side , he slipped and fell 9 ' to ground striking the boom structure on the way down .
employee was in the process of dumping a tri-axle load of coal when the truck tipped over . the employee suffered a laceration to his right ear .
report of unintentional roof fall return number 4 belt , 2 breaks inby spad number 1345
at the time of the incident employee was removing the left muffler from a 690 tiger . as he was holding the muffler with his right hand and pressing on a prybar with his left hand the muffler suddenly broke free from the turbocharger coupler , causing his hand to be pinched between the muffler and frame and lacerating his finger .
this operator experienced a reportable roof fall on the tailgate of the 3-left longwall starting at 41+90 and extending outby to 41+25 . the fall was 65 ft long x 10 ft high . the fall affected the passage of people and quantity of ventilation . ( action to prevent reoccurrence - this operator is adding additional roof support in the area adjacent to the fall area and outby in the entry . )
pulling on belt trying to feed towards sector gate and felt pain in his upper right shoulder . employee requested medical treatment 05/29/03 . followed with physical therapy to right shoulder . reported   on `` quarterly report '' failed to file 7000-1 .
the injured stated he was helping drill operator break two drill stems apart . the steel clamp/breakout wrench wasn't holding the drill stem firmly . mechanic placed 2 '' x 4 '' x 16 '' board between the drill stem and breakout wrench to increase grip on drill stem . he motioned the drill operator to tighten the die grip onto drill stem . when the wrench moved quickly it caught his right thumb .
employee reported on 6/25/17 that employee injured arm 6/16/17 . employee was removing a seat from a euclid hauler using a wrench and the back right bolt was very tight . the doctor did not give any restrictions on initial visit . employee eventually required physical therapy on 8/22/17 which makes this a recordable injury .
rail `` low boy '' with scoop was walking around scoop to hook chain to scoop `` low boy '' he tripped on a crib block and fell cutting his left hand between index finger and thumb .
a roof fall occurred in the number 4 right entry . the initial roof fall was approximately 36 inches thick . the manner in which the rock fell had the continuous miner trapped . after miner was retrieved the rock fall was approximately 9 ft thick by 40 ft long by 18 feet wide .
was working welding in the plant . employee over extended right shoulder . employee also did not report this accident until september 27 , 2016 .
employee was working a t-i grate installing stub shafts on the south side . he squatted down to pick up a e ton capacity come-along and felt a tear in his right knee . on 5-7-02 , he received medical treatment   for his knee .
employee climbed up a conveyor belt to check motor size . while up on the conveyor , the belt rolled back causing the employee to lose his footing and fall approximately 15 ft to the ground . there was no power to the equipment . employee was immediately attended to by witnesses who made sure he was conscious and kept immobilized when it appeared his back was injured .
employee was tramming a track motor and a piece of draw rock fell and broke the life line . a hook from a rope hanger attached to the life line struck him on the thumb , resulting in a cut .
employee was walking backwards talking to another employee in the equipment parking area . as employee turned around , employee turned into a fill pipe on the side of the parked water truck . the pipe struck employee in the right upper rib cage shoulder area causing employee to fall . employee complained of right shoulder pain after incident .
employee was working with another on the crane . they were repairing the shive on the crane boom . they were putting the pin back in . injured had his hand between the pin and the crane and when other hit the pin it broke free and hit injured's right hand cutting the right middle and index fingers .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the old 1a panel at station 35+70 between entries 3 and 4. the fall did not affect ventilation , passage of men to cause personal injury . the fall measured 18 ft x 18 ft x 6 ft high . the fall will not be cleaned up . approximately date of development 7/15/07 .
employee was roof bolting when drill steel became stuck and tried to free it , he hit himself in head , causing lacerations .
two employees were trying to get pump pressure from glut to face area . injured was turning number 3 valve about 1/4 turn when pressure caused glut to break chain that held glut to monorail . glut knocked both to the ground . employee said glut hit injured in the head . x-ray showed fracture in neck . also received sutures .
this accident was reported to mine safety and health administration . this employee is an additional injury that just showed up . employee was standing with 2 other employees when we had an ignition . this employee did sprain his left knee but it did not hurt until 10/04/07 . employee is a control room operator seat number 2 and is performing that duty full time no lost time accident .
employee was moving steel on the storage pile to retrieve material for a project . employee felt back tighten as employee moved the steel . it got worse throughout the week .
stumbled and twisted knee in loadout and also twisted when returned to the lab .
two employee were drilling a hole in the mine floor with a hydraulic drill . the drill bit caught causing this employee to stumble and loose grip on the handle of the drill . the drill spun causing employee hand to become caught in the hand guard with employee hand stuck on the trigger . 2nd employee fell into conveyor feeder . this employee taken to doctor and placed on restrictions .
employee felt sharp pain in back area under ribs while hand scaling . doctor diagnosed a fracture to one rib . employee released to restricted duty .
employee was moving the undercutter cable to the next panel , after plugging it in , he turned and his knee popped , he couldn't put any weight on his left leg .
roof fall occurred at spad 1373 and it measured approximately 5 ' thick , 30 ' long and 16 ' wide .
employee was struck in the hand with a rock while riding in a mantrip .
employee was putting a bearing away on a mid-height shelving area in the conex when the bearing slipped from hand and struck the metatarsal area of left foot .
injured got out of mantrip . raised up too fast ( according to doctor ) and he passed out and fell onto the track hitting the back of his head on the rail which cut his head resulting in 8 stitches outside and 4 stitches inside . injured was riding 36 bus .
employee was assisting with installing pins on the right dragline fairlead sheave . while repositioning his body to enter the manlift , his foot slipped causing him to fall back into the fairlead assembly . his left arm struck a chain hook on the catwalk handrail causing a laceration with stitches .
while helping guide a 50' x 7 ' culvert across uneven ground , the employee stepped into a soft spot and lost his balance . he caught himself as he was falling but in the process he jammed his left leg and knee . the employee continued to work full duty through 07/16/09 . mine safety and health administration lost time accident 07/17/09
pre shift mine examiner found a cave in number 4 entry of the 3rd southwest mains . cave started approximately 20 ' inby station number 714 and extended for a distance of approximately 100 ' . area is timbered and dangered off . area was bolted with 5 ' point anchor bolts and 6 ' instal .
employee was removing a wad of thread from the sewing machine at the main plant . he pulled the thread through the sewing machine and extended his arm to the left . when he did , he reached behind a bag kicker panel as it was returning and his hand was pinched between the panel and the back of the kicker .
an an unknown date and time there was a roof fall measuring approximately unknown size at break 52 on the south longwall section .
employee was hanging miner cable and felt a pull in his neck , with numbness in his right hand .
the continuous miner was caught by a roof fall in the number 4 entry right pillar . after the mine safety and health administration 800 number was contacted the existing fall fell more and covered the continuous miner up . the roof fall also extended into the number 5 heading . both falls were in the same area and was a continuation of the first reported fall .
crusher attendant was inspecting the phase i shuttle conveyor . she stumbled on a stonebox chain , injuring her left hand . she started physical therapy on 12-1-2000 .
a roof fall occurred which propagated from an older fall . the new fall traveled from an unused part of the mine and stopped beside a haul road . material from the fall piled up on part of the haul road .
operator was attempting to close the front windshield on excavator when it became stuck . he used both hands to force the window shut . it came down quick and caught his right middle finger between the window and the frame .
while in the process of tramming the highwall miner to a new pit , the track popped and a piece of metal flew off striking employee on the left wrist .
employee claims to have injured his left knee when he struck his knee with a metal jack . employee started missing work on 2/19/03 . management became aware of this on 2/27/03 when a workers compensation   report was received .
employee was running buggie . he stopped to move 4 5 gal bucket of oil . when he picked one up he felt pain in his abdomen .
employee twisted knee when he slipped in the mud .
the employee was under the decline belt drive frame prying on an i beam with a pry bar . he felt a sharp pain in the left shoulder with continuing discomfort . on 1/16/07 while in longwall warehouse the employee was trying to retrieve a snatch hook when he felt sharp pain in shoulder . he was taken to seek medical attention and was put on rd until his mri on 1/25/07 .
employee was diagnosed with silicosis by a pulmonary specialist on 5-16-00 .
employee fell off equipment while performing 125 hour service on aerial lift .
while tightening a 4 ft crusher , employee struck thumb with sledge hammer .
employee was walking down steps , when he slipped and felt a pop in his left knee . employee had walked through a fine layer of mud . employee believes that mud on boots was a contributing factor to the slip . employee was send home on 03/05/12 because he took prescription pain medication 15 minutes prior to reporting for work , against prescription instructions . this resulted in a lost work day .
employee was welding , slag burnt his right lower leg
employee was walking on rails of trailer strapping load when he fell off the trailer landing on the ground .
employee was using a box cutter knife and placed it on a pallet of sand knee high with the blade exposed . the employee walked away and as employee walked back toward the pallet employee ran knee into the knife causing a laceration of the left knee .
roof fall above anchorage which blocked the passage of men . the fall was number 26 wall , number 4 track entry , 4 way intersection west mains . the fall was 20 ' wide , 50 ' long , and 20 ' high . there were no in juries or damage to equipment .
while walking across hood of rock truck , employee slipped on ice/oil causing him to fall on right side . had pain in right knee and lower back .
employee was washing out under the rock plant . when he exited he ran into a steel beam with his mouth and broke his partial . also he cut his mouth . he did not notify us until december .
employee was backing miner out of cross-cut 6-5 and had head down watching miner cable when a piece of rock fell from between bolts and hit him in back of head . he was wearing hard hat .
employee was installing unloading skateboard onto the outlet valve when he bumped his right hand against the unloading skate board . this slight bump irritated the cyst on his right hand . it became sore   .
employee was roof bolting . when he set his bolter up to put up a roof bolt and as he pushed the roof bolt up against the roof , a piece of rock busted underneath the bolter . this caused the bolter to drop down 4-5 '' , striking the employee on the head with the canopy .
roof fall happened in sump entry number 2 off a-mains at station spad # u828 . fall is approximately   150' long. fall is not in the main entries . they are all open cribbed off all sides of cave and rebolted with 12 '' cable bolts . fall is outby face area about 2000 ' .
a unknown type fire started in a screen deck during maintenance which spread to 2 conveyors and 2 additional screen decks . the fire was extinguished in approximately 40 to 50 minutes by local fire departments . there were no injuries or illnesses resulting from this occurrence .
while changing pipe nipple on top of flight pump with employee holding pump with pry bar , injured was pulling on pipe wrench , pipe wrench slipped on his middle finger left hand , was pinched , lost fingernail .
cedar creek elevator is out of service as of 9/13/06 due to electrical problems . bagby elevator company examined the service elevator , but did not have the part needed to repair it . we are presently still in search of part to repair elevator .
while stepping off of a conveyor frame employee twisted and strained his lower back .
employee using hand grinder , debris flew into right eye .
employee was shoveling beltline when he felt pain in his lower back .
employee was cutting a plastic tie with a razor knife . he was cutting toward himself and cut the back of his left hand requiring stitches .
employee was turning a gear on a water strainer with a 36 inch pipe wrench . he felt a pull to the groin . employee continued to work his shifts . he had surgery on 12-11-03 for a groin hernia . on 12-17-03 he   was hospitalized for other medical problem . at this time are not work related . this determination has caused this delay in reporting .
employee reached back to pick up a guard and bumped his right elbow on a handrail shortly afterwards his right arm began to swell .
late during his last shift before a 3 day weekend employee started experiencing heat cramps in legs , arms and back . he reported this to his supervisor , drank fluids and completed shift . on 6-14-04 he returned to work as scheduled but complained of a pain in his lower back and was taken to the doctor he says there was no specific incident that caused the pain . prescribed meds and restricted duty .
employee hit his own hand with an 8 lb hammer . fractured finger .
on 12/18/2015 an associate stepped out of the loader he slipped on uneven ground and grabbed the handle to stop from falling . we took him to the clinic where he was released without restrictions to come back to work . on 1/4/2016 an mri was performed resulting in a torn bicep muscle . he was released without restrictions but we have restricted his tasks .
employee states that while using an air lance to unplug a screw conveyor , the dust blew back into his face getting dust in his right eye . this caused employee to get alkali dust burn to right eye .
employee was filling the steam cleaner with gunk liquid pressure washing compound . as he was filling the machine , the can slipped and some of the fluid got on his face . he was taken to smith northview hospital to be seen by a doctor as a precaution . he was seen by the doctor and released back to full duty . there was no burns or other visible injuries .
employee was using a high-pressure water hose to wash out underneath the stageloader . he lost control of the hose , was knocked down and struck on the right wrist the hose nozzle .
welder and a helper were assigned to weld patches over holes in the possum belly of the southeast shaker . the helper was holding the patches in place as they were tacked . helper experienced flash burn as a result .
employee alleges he was grinding pipe with a grinder and he started having pain in his left wrist .
employee was lowering the pinner canopy when it tilted striking him chipping a tooth . 10/1/00 last day of regular cycle returned to work reg cycle 10/6/00
electrician determined need to change a problem contactor on operable production hoist . mine foreman was told to evacuate the mine . evacuation was started , but was not completed prior to beginning component changeout . inspector arriving on site was informed of the situation .
a roof fall measuring approximately   17' x 50 ; x 20+ ' occurred 1 cross-cut inby spad no . 121. the fall area was dangered off and the area abandoned . the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was working to clear the jaw crusher of a large boulder that jammed the crusher and pulled a muscle in his lower abdomen . employee did not realize the extent of his injury at the time and did not report it to his supervisor .
while making a belt splice on 6b2 beltline , employee was pulling a piece belt from under the beltline with a pair of channel locks , when employee felt a sharp pain in lower back on the left side .
employee was replacing bags in baghouse , bending over and pulling bags , strained lower back .
during the process of digging and piling shell the boom hoist cable broke . one end of the cable smashed through the windshield striking employee . bruises and minor cuts on legs , left ring finger tip cut off , left middle finger broke , needed surgery .
a reportable roof fall occurred in box canyon mains , entry 9 at cross-cut 28. the fall was approximately 20 ' wide , 20 ' in length , and 10 ' high .
employee bent over to check the oil level in a roofbolter and a piece of rock fell from the roof and struck him in the right back .
employee was positioning liners when the mechanic on the outside of the chute was assisting with a spud wrench to line up the liner to insert a bolt . the employee in the chute got finger in the bolt hole of the liner , while the employee out of the chute inserted the spud wrench to line it up . the finger was smashed in between the liner and the spud wrench .
the lateral ( sideboard ) had come off the plant conveyor belt and coworker turned off the conveyor to locate the lateral . employee proceeded to accommodate the lateral ( pick it up and position it on the belt ) but employee did not notice that there was a stone falling . the stone struck employee between the nape of the neck , head and shoulders .
employee had donned his welding hood and was preparing to strike an arc . as he nodded his head to make the hood fall , a small foreign object fell into his left eye . he tried to wash it out unsuccessfully . went to rmc emergency room . the evening of the 25th and had a small piece of steel removed from his eyes .
employee had just locked out on the a-side overland belt system . he was walking away from the lock box when he slipped and fell and heard a pop in his right ankle . employee sustained a muscle sprain to his right ankle .
employee was pushing open a garage door to install some light and felt pain in his right forearm . he reported it to company official but did not go to doctor . pain got worse and employee went to doc tor on 3-31-01. doctor prescribed medication and splint to help immobilized arm . returned to work .
employee was hitting troughing roller with hammer to free it from rocks . employee's left hand and forearm were pulled between roller and conveyor belt . employee was able to pull his arm free .
employee was moving from the platform between the cab and the glad hands when employee's foot slipped off step . employee caught self by grabbing the handle on the side of the tractor with employee's left hand . employee felt pain in employee's left shoulder .
employee was injured on 10/04/2015 and continued to work until 11/03/2015 when doctor changed treatment and took him off work . he was reinstalling guarding when he turned and slipped hyperextending his right knee . all personal safety items were being used . it did not involve compliance issues , no equipment involved . it did not involve job proficiency or attitude .
employee was removing the tail pulley from 7bc1q . when he reached over and pulled on the tail pulley experiencing a sharp pain in his lower back .
injured person was in process of completing a delivery to customer site . foot became tangled in rope between wheel chocks causing injured person to fall . injured person placed arms out to break fall and when landed caused fracture of the bone .
the driver positioned his truck in the pit to be loader , and reached over to the dash to get his load count report as the loader was approaching the truck to dump the bucket with the loader . the operator dropped the bucket full of coal striking the top of the box causing the truck to bounce , resulting in whip lash to the truck driver .
employee strained his neck while shoveling . employee kept on working with no restrictions until 11/18/04 . employee went to doctor and was off thursday and friday ( 11/18 and 11/19 ) . employee came back on monday ( 11/22 ) with no restrictions . i ( safety officer ) was on vacation when employee went out . ( employee is a hunter . )
employee was cutting block stone with rock hammer when the hammer bounced back and hit him in forehead .
the worker was servicing the rubber tire dozer at the central crusher stockpile . upon finishing the task , the worker returned to the lube truck cab by placing both feet on the access step holding   the upright grab iron with his right hand while reaching for the truck door handle with his left hand . his feet slipped and he fell approximately   3' to the ground striking his left side .
employee was disconnecting the hydraulic hoses to the scraper pans connected to the john deere tractor he stepped off the tractor landing on a hydraulic hose causing him to twist his left ankle .
employee and other were on miner section to change supply cars at end of the track . employee pulled supply trip toward the section . as he was doing this , the weight of the trip pushed him toward the end of the section . employee jumped off his motor , and caused a fracture to his left leg .
employee was in the process of removing debris from a clean out system on a bag house . after the employee locked out the system , he proceeds to move the gear on the rotary valve using a pipe wrench while trying to free the object with his other hand . as the object loosens his hand falls forward into the flights cutting his ring and middle finger on his left hand .
employee bumped shin on corner of piece of metal causing abrasion on shin . medical complications resulted in swelling of leg and restricted duty .
employee stepped off a platform and started having pain in lower back . doctor has diagnosed him as having degenerative disc disease . `` see attached doctor's notes . ''
employee was performing regular duties he cut his ring finger ( left hand ) on the cat walk required two stitches his occurred at the slurry .
when attempting to clear out built up coal in the chute above the sample systems secondary cutter , the technician's left arm was caught by the cutter . the tech . had surgery 8/26/02 and 8/28/02 for   compartment syndrome .
employee was cutting board with a torch over head and a foreign object bounced off glasses and entered right eye .
miner climbed up to retrieve lunch bucket from the cab and when employee went to exit employee missed the step and fell to the ground .
struck head on crossmembers at screen .
2 employees were air lancing hopper at c8 vibrating screw ; because they were using same air outlet the air pressure was reduced and injured employee pried and dug at material in hopper . this caused him to severely strain his left shoulder .
employee was operating lead locomotive going outby , locomotive jumped track into cross cut striking rib throwing him forward and landed on radio locomotive antenna sticking him in right arm and curled in arm . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
employee was grinding on a metal when a piece of metal went into his right eye .
roof fall above anchorage in 22-right belt line , number 3 entry , cross-cut 87+50 extending to cross-cut 88 approximately 115 feet in length and 22 feet in width . this panel was mined july 2007 and it is believed that the water , heat and humidity along with the dry winter air now in progress may be a contributing factor of changes in the roof conditions .
employee was changing a metal flange at cyclone number 15 in the float plant . he removed his gloves to place nuts on related bolts , then lifted the flange before placing gloves back on his hands . the flange had a sharp wear point on the inside which lacerated his right middle finger .
a roof fall occurred on the number 2 unit , producing section . the fall is in the number 4 entry @ cross-cut 6. the fall measures approximately 18 feet long , 18 feet wide and 12 feet thick . the area is supported with 5 foot torque tension rebar bolts and 12 ft cable bolts .
a mechanical problem occurred on the koepe man cage . the overspeed cam that operates the overspeed contact was loose/not making good contact and would not allow the koepe to function properly . the mine was evacuated of the 40 persons in the mine . the problem was corrected and koepe back in service at approximately 3:30pm . no injuries ; no other concerns .
a non-injury event occurred to camp run portal elevator due to the severe weather occurring at the time , 8 miners became trapped on the elevator when power was lost . backup electrical power was set , one of the 2 rope grips failed to release . schindler elevator service was called to correct the condition . the miners were freed at approximately 12:01 am 02/06/2010 .
employee bent over to pick up a set of keys . when employee stood back up employee claimed employee felt a pop in employee's back . employee was at work following incident on modified duty for 9 days before employee's claim was denied and employee was sent home on personal injury leave . upon investigation it was determined that this injury was not caused in the workplace but it is being filed as a matter of precaution .
employee reports while shoveling , felt pain in back . did not become lost time until 12-7-00 .
a roof fall was found by pre-shift foreman . he notified me . rerouted escapeway , timbered and dangered off , did not clean up . had safety talk with all employees . notified mine safety and health administration and office of mine safety and licensing agencies
stockpiling ore at mill site stockpile area . dump truck dumped his load on stockpile and began to pull away from pile . while slowing pulling forward and beginning to turn to the right , the haul   truck ran over a dozer operator who was in front of dump truck the injury was fatal .
a roof fall was discovered on the c-6 section ( number 4 cross-cut , between number 13 and number 14 room ) . the fall occurred 450 ' outby the feeder . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' supertwist bolts and 12 ' cable bolts . no ventilation , travelways , or equipment were effected . no injuries resulted from this fall .
hoist was down from 5:30 am until 10:30 am rod broken on motor brake .
employee was removing a door on the head gate of the longwall in order to get to a sprocket . a rock fell from the roof hitting employee on the back of the head and shoulder area .
employee reached in to clear some bags that were stuck in the machine . the machine had been stopping and starting , and while it was stopped for a noticeable period of time , employee thought is would be safe to retrieve the bags . instead of shutting the machine off first , he reached in . the machine started again and the employee's hand was caught between the belt and the rollers .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal at the number 1 entry of the 5w headgate number 1 setup room face at +145 . the fall was approximately 16 - 17 feet long , approximately 17 feet wide and approximately 6 1/2 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of workers . the fall will be cleaned up . fall number 26 f
employee was operating remote box on offside of pan of the highwall miner . the conveyor chain started , threw a rock out and struck him in the chest . he alleged it caused pain in his chest and strained his back .
employee was installing lagging in steel arches and strained his back .
employee says he fell down wet steps at ball mill in early august . witness listed is not known to have worked at mine . employee did not report accident to his supervisor and none of his coworkers are aware that he fell down stairs . reported to compensation . management 9-5-08 by handing letter to another employee to pass on . freegold is denying claim of injury through workers compensation .
employee was loading 50 lb bags rock dust onto pallet felt pain in middle lower back .
approximately   12 tons of material fell from the highwall onto the canopy at the number   1 portal . the material measured approximately   0 '' -2 ' in thickness , 12 ' wide x 8 ' long . the material was removed from the canopy and a replacement canopy was installed .
employee bent down to pick up a section of angle iron and felt a pain in his back .
employee was bent over moving framework when he twisted and felt a sharp pain in his back .
not a dolese employee . customer suffered apparent heart attack in his truck near scale house . customer died enroute to hospital .
employee driving r35 number 1 from shot rock area . drive shaft broke on truck , causing it to pick up speed . employee panicked and jumped from moving truck .
employee claims to have been struck by a sledge hammer . hammer caguht safety harness causing him to wrench his neck .
a maintenance crew was working under the primary crusher fixing a support beam which required attention . employee was standing on a horizontal beam 2 ' off the floor . as he stepped down off the beam he scrapped or lacerated his leg on the beam .
employee was attempting to remove a stuck shovel tooth pin with a double jack . a piece of the pin flew off and went under the sleeve of his shirt and coveralls . his arm was lacerated and required suturing . the piece of steel was not imbedded in his arm .
employee was lifting a drill subshaft , when she placed it on the floor it dropped and fell on her left index finger causing a laceration requiring sutures .
climbing into a gehl , he bumped his right   elbow on the cage . the elbow swelled and he went to the doctor he was released to return to work .
help to load 4 '' h beams . he stated his back became tight . diagnosed with sprained lumbar started missing time 8/13/07
employee was filling kerosene heaters used to apply heat to belts . the skidsteer loader with fork attachment being used to raise kerosene tank to raised heaters . after employee raised tank into place hie exited   skidsteer loader . while exiting , he stepped on ice , lost balance and fell into fork attachment striking his rib cage .
bag busted on bagger , employee ran to cut off clay and he pulled a muscle in his right leg .
employee was making repairs on joy miner on floor jack . he was driving a keeper pin out of jack with a ball pin hammer . a piece of the hammer broke off and entered the left hand of employee . employee did not start missing time until 7/20/04 .
employee stepped into the 6 inch gap between the wood pallet and the edge of the pallet lift ( pallet jack ) with his left leg . the employee sprained his left knee caused from the leg entering the the small   area . employee has been placed on light duty .
a roof fall was discovered during a regular weekly mine examination . the intersection of section 3 right entry 4 at cross-cut 24 broke above the roof bolts . escapeways and ventilation not affected
employee was shoveling on number 7 head and pulled a muscle in his lower back . he worked to the end of the shift .
employee stepping over silt fence to take a water sample when their weight shifted causing their foot to slip in mud and twist their right knee resulting in pain . employee did not think they needed to go to doctor at that time . pain became worse over time and now is needing surgery .
removing center section from scoop and top pin in center section fell out hitting the left pointer finger , smashing it . he was taken to greenbrier valley medical center and received 6 sutures . he was given full release .
the employee attempting to clean up a bag so he could identify the number put his hand on it while it was moving . this resulted in a laceration to his right thumb .
employee stepped in wet cement during a cementing operation at the site of a well plugging operation 5/20/11 . a chemical burn developed over the weekend on his left foot . the employee sought medical attention on 5/23/11 .
employee tack welding wearing welders jacket but not gloves . slag fell into sleeve . employee had shirt with polyester lining , caught on fire . 1st and 2nd degree burns to forearm .
the employee was moving a stored self-contained self-rescuer cache and felt a tear feeling in his abdomen area . after consulting with a doctor on the following monday it was determined that the employee was in need of surgery do to a hernia . the employee was placed on restricted duty .
employee got a piece of metal in his eye , but not sure when it happened . employee feels it must have been at work , but can't give a specific incident .
employee was replacing side rails on the 6 x 16 seco shaker screen. he was holding a bold head with his right hand and using an impact wrench to tighten a nut on the bolt. employee engaged the nut on the bolt turned catching his glove and wrapping around his hand . the bolt head cut through the glove and cut his right 3rd   finger .
while mounting a rail car , employee felt a pop in his left shoulder . employee was given full duty release from local doctor on 5/14 , but went back to the doctor on 5/17 . the doctor on 5/17 put the employee off work , for further treatment , until june .
employee reported incident to his supervisor on the day after it happened ( 5/8/03 ) the employee reported it to the safety dept on 5/11/03 . on 5/12/03 employee requested to be seen by a doctor employee sent to company doctor 5/12/03 light duty restrictions given
employee was adjusting throttle on skid - steer . wrench slipped and left hand struck moving part .
employee was assisting in putting jeep on track . got his thumb stuck in track jack . crushed right thumb from knuckle to end of thumb .
employee was removing a keyway from a pulley shaft using a punch and hammer when the punch fractured projecting a piece of metal in his left forearm .
employee was walking and sprained left knee . 1st day missed is 9/20/11 .
employee stated he climbed over a rail on the dredge/float in order to grease a pulley , when stepping back over rail onto walkway , employee stated he felt a twinge of pain in left knee . 5/5/08 employee was seen by doctor and was told he a strain/sprain to left knee , gave employee medicine . employee started missing work on 5/7/08 .
driver and passenger were driving down the haul road to pete bajo pit from leeville . when trying to make a left hand corner the truck tipped on the passenger side .
the portal passenger elevator went down at approximately 8:16 am . schindler elevator service was called to evaluate the occurrence and correct the problem . the elevator was returned to service at approximately 10:03 am . a defective door switch , which allows the elevator door to shut , was found to be the problem .
employee hearing tested and diagnosed with a standard threshold shift per company doctor jeff crawford md .
the employee was bending over to turn a slusher on when he struck the brake handles with his face/head .
employee returning to loader for a load turning around a pillar while downshifting and drove through low spot causing wheel to jerk as he was turning causing left hand to separate and strike door frame of truck .
injured stated that as he was walking he stepped on a piece of rock and fell twisting/fracturing his left ankle .
person was aked to check out the reason number 23 coal belt went down . he threw the breaker , opened the panel and found the fuse bad . while installing a new fuse he touched a live 480 v wire and burned   his right hand . his burns required dressing .
mounting a rotary chain to a d8 bulldozer , piece of metal flew and punctured right wrist .
employee stated while carrying a box of powder his foot got stuck in the mud . when he attempted to pull free , he fell and twisted his back . a doctor placed him on light duty .
employee was cleaning grizzly bars off a hopper . the hopper is fed by a feeded belt . when reaching for a rock the employee's hand was pinched between the rock and the head pulley of the feeder causing lacerations to employee's right hand .
employee was shoveling clean out area around conveyor .
worker was moving a piece of sandstone when he twisted and strained a muscle in his back .
employee was drilling a starter hole in the duct work . the drill left a piece of metal shaving . employee had gloves on , but when he tried to pull the duct work , a piece of the metal cut his finger .
employee was bolting top . small rock fell . hit employee on left arm , slicing it open . required 12 stitches .
employee was stepping up to climb onto his motor grader when his left knee popped causing him to fall . he worked full duty until his surgery on 10/23/02 . he returned to work on his next scheduled   work day on 10/24/02 on restricted duty .
i was drilling a hole to install a roof bolt - after drilling first section i lowered drill head to insert extension , first still was in the roof , as i put extension into drill head the first st ill fell from roof striking my right hand , small finger . the injury did not involve any aspect of compliance with rules or regulations , job skills , attitude or protective items . gloves were worn
while dumping load moved truck forward grade of the ground became unlevel and truck tipped over .
a fall occurred at 3 south track number 60 block . the fall was 17 ' long 10 ' wide and 7 ' high . no injury occurred . the area is the old manline track . the area was dangered off and will be re-bolted .
employee stated he was assisting constructing a metal overcast , and while lifting on a piece of the metal overcast he experienced swelling in the right testicle .
on 8/02/2007 a continuation of an unintentional roof fall occurred at cross cut number 61 in number 6 entry on the 3rd south sub main . the roof fell between two sets of arches in an intersection that had been cribbed and rail bared . the roof fall will be cleaned up .
employee was releasing the brake on the lower ramp shore wire ( head end ) and the brake released improperly allowing the hand wheel to spin rapidly . the wheel caught the employee's hand and caused a laceration and a fracture to the right middle finger . employee was allowed to work . reportable for fracture and medical treatment .
employee alleged carpal tunnel syndrome on 1.28.16. after rescheduling appointments multiple times , employee was diagnosed with bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome on 6.13.16. employee terminated employment on 5.15.16. treatment is still pending at this time .
a fall of roof occurred in the southwest submain at cross-cut number 56 , entry # 3. the fall measured approximately 18 feet wide x 18 feet long and the thickness is unknown . the area was supported with 6 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
alleged incident - employee knocked # 9cm breaker , was removing the cathead and received an electrical shock while their neck was against the cable . incident is still under investigation . cause is unknown at this time . compliance with rules/regulations at this time is not factor , incident involved equipment , job skills not a factor , miner proficiency may be a factor , personal protective equipment not a factor at this time .
employee was cutting a piece of belt for skirting in tail piece on number 2 belt and had belt laying across his leg .
employee was working with a come-along , pulling the feeder belt out from under the feeder . while cranking on the come-along , putting tension on the belt , employee felt something pull in his stomach .
slid into the ditch due to weather conditions
injured employee was standing next to a parked skid steer loader talking to employee . sitting inside the skid steer loader . ie turned to walk away from skid steer loader and tripped on the loader's bucket which had a 4 ' extension attached to the bucket . ie tripped and fell to ground producing a fracture to right 5th finger . positive x-ray diagnosed on 8/03/2011 . ie initially refused treatment .
employee is a dozer operator . he back over a rock that was not in his eyesight causing a jolt of the machine . this jolt caused him to be jarred severely causing a hurt back . he missed two days and is not back to work with very little problem .
employee was hosing down with a dilute caustic solution . employee felt an itching sensation in his right foot . employee did not report the incident to his supervisor until 6/03 . employee went home and discovered that he had a small chemical burn area in his right foot . the affected area became infected due to a lack of prompt medical treatment and poor personal hygiene .
employee was assembling conveyer and complained of being weak , dizzy and hard to breathe . it had been determined that this illness is work related .
the employee was pushing a hoist cylinder to the bottom pin of a 170 ton haul truck . as he pushed he was in an awkward position and felt a strain in his back . as time went on pain persisted , a treatment   by a chiropractor was necessary .
while placing a clip on a cooling system radiator , the radiator slipped off the frame and pinned employee against a railing .
sc511 screensizer chute plugged with hot material which emanates gases that combust when exposed to air . flames escape through doors located on the top of the screensizer . no damage to equipment or personnel . equipment is designed to withstand this condition .
while in the process of shield recovery , employee was assisting in placing beams on number 174 shield . when the 2nd beam was placed onto the shield , a piece of rock fell striking him on left hand .
employee was changing cutting edge on loader . the spinning bolt cut his middle finger on left hand . he received 7 stitches at the clinic in webster wisconsin .
employee slipped on the wet floor while pulling and dragging 2 '' water hose on the monorail .
employee was working on the main line packer and cleaned the feed spout that caused employee to cut hand . there is a cut on left thumb and looks like it needs stitches .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by a mine examiner on the lyons mains section . the roof fall was in the number 6 entry between spad # s l416 and l462 and measured 82 ft long x 18 ' wide x 12 ft high no people or equipment were damaged or ventilation disrupted .
employee was inserting a piece of drill steel in the coal drill , lever was bumped causing the drill head to advance , mashing his right index finger .
man was helping unload 8 inch   i   beams from supply car onto a scoop car to be used on a belt drive take up unit . men were sliding it over to the scoop and man got his finger pinched between beam   and edge of scoop bucket .
employee was was filling 50 lb product bags , when a guard came loose and was ejected from the filling spout , striking him in his lower back area .
while stringing lines to work off roof bolt holes , the employee stated that he pulled something in his upper back .
employee was washed rail car and was closing lids . as he was closing the last lid he felt something pull in the lower left side of his back .
the employee was using a wrench to loosen wedge bolts that hold the bowl liner in the crusher . the employee leveraged the wrench to release the bolt . immediately , employee felt a sharp pain in employee's left foot as employee's weight transitioned . an x-ray was performed and revealed a fracture of the fifth metatarsal bone in employee's left foot .
employee opened door of front end loader to talk to truck driver , foreign body blew into left eye .
employee was greasing standing on a ladder greasing a haul unit in the lube bay . he was standing on the third ( 3rd ) rung from the top of the ladder . when he pulled on the grease line that was attached to the grease fitting , he lost his balance and fell 8 feet to the ground landing between two grease barrels .
employee was attempting to loosen the pitman arm from the steering box on a suburban . he held one hammer stationary against the pitman arm , while hitting it with another hammer . as the hammer made contact   , it slipped , twisting in his hand and glancing off his other hand . this peeled the skin back between the thumb and index finger requiring 14 stitches . his right hand and that hammer handle were
employee was driving a ramcar when he hit a hole in the travelway , jarring his back .
a catwalk broke while an employee was assisting in a screen change on 21 rotex . the employee dropped 30 '' to the floor and struck his right shoulder against the product chutes on the east side of the rotex .
employee sustained a sprained ankle as a result of a fall .
the employee was standing on a timber ( 8 ' x 4 ' x 4 '' ) and unloading others , he slipped and fell striking his right wrist forearm and elbow against the side of the scoop bucket .
an unintentional roof fall on hazy main in number 5 entry at spad number   12226. the fall was approximately   50 ' long , 20 ' wide , and 4 ' thick . 4 ' resin bolts used . no injuries .
employee's belly dump truck was stuck while trying to unload a coal pile . after the front end loader pulled her off the coal pile she was putting the tow cable back on the loader when she injured the tendons in her right wrist .
employee was checking the condition of the faces on # 3 unit at the time of this incident . he had just arrived on the section and was performing his on shift examination of the faces . a rock measuring 8 ' by 2 ' by 1/2 '' fell from the roof striking him on the head . it knocked him to the ground and landed on his legs .
12 c long wall using sledge hammer to break up rock that was jammed at headgate . as he swung hammer he felt pain in right shoulder . he continued to work normal duties until 1/3/02 . at this time   lost days began .
employee climbed up drill toward cable foot slipped felt pain in lower back
employee was operating a roof bolting machine at the face area . he had drilled a bolt hole and was attempting to push a bolt assembly into the hole . he bolt caught on the side on the hole and stopped   suddenly . employee felt pain in back . the was no damage , improvement or other factors involved .
employee was opening a metal door on a pre mixer . he let the door go and the hinges allowed it to swing down and hit a pile of hydrated lime . this material came up and got into his eyes under his faceshield and glasses he was wearing . he was prescribed antibiotics for his eyes .
employee was struck on top of his head by drawrock which resulted in a neck strain , while emptying the dust box . employee worked until 2-7-06 then started missing time .
employee was getting out of grove crane and slipped off bottom step , hurting lower back .
employee walking across a four foot ditch , lost his balance and fell resulting in a fractured wrist .
employee was loading haul trucks with an excavator . a loaded haul truck was signaled to leave the loading site . as it pulled away , the left rear outside tire failed violently . the air blast from   the tire failure threw a small rock at a high velocity into the cab of the excavator striking injured's jaw on lower left side . his mandible was fractured and he sustained a laceration .
helping another mechanics fixing a motor , the motor was unsecure and one part of the motor went down and hit the head of the employee . the employee was there without his helmet at that moment .
while steam cleaning a piece of equipment , the injured accidentally squeezed the trigger of the wand and hit the right side of his right foot . the outside of the foot received 1st and 2nd degree burns .
employee was assigned the task to dispense diesel fuel into a bulldozer . employee noticed a rock that was hindering him from getting close enough for the fuel nozzle to reach the dozer . employee attempted to move the rock with the help of coworker . employee strained a muscle on the right side of his lower back .
on september 19 , 2014 mine management was notified of an occupational illness . the employee was awarded benefits due to occupational pneumoconiosis .
contractor was walking by the number 3 fairchild scoop and lost his footing when he tripped and hit his chin on the canopy of the scoop . he was treated at raleigh general hospital where he received two ( 2 ) sutures .
employee was showing another employee how to properly change the new filter he installed on sat . after explaining how , he opened the lid to the high pressure filter without isolating the system and bleeding   the pressure off . the lid to the high pressure vessel blew up into his face .
bent over to pickup a wooden 4 x 4 when he felt pain in his lower back .
while working on an overhead crane , the employee became disoriented and is believed to have suffered heat exhaustion .
roof fall dimensions high 7-8 ' long 200 ' wide 19 ' , geology soft medium to dark gray shale , roof support 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee stepped over some process piping and felt a pain in his right leg . on 06/24/05 employee begin losing work .
we had repeated power failure due to incoming voltage low . this caused the dyna-brake to loose its memory . reprogrammed dyna-brake . mine safety and health administration was notified at 12:15 pm that the hoist was down and was   called at 1:00 pm when back in service .
the injured was die grinding stainless steel parts in the maintenance shop . after grinding he looked up and metal flecks     that were on his safety glasses fell into his eye .
loader bucket edge struck corner of pillow h 20 west turning loader sharply to right , twisting operator in seat .
employee was stepping up on a platform to grease conveyor belt couplings when he felt a pop/snap in his knee
employee was carrying box of light bulbs from the warehouse to the back of his truck . as he was carrying the box , he tripped over a screw that was in the aisleway outside of the warehouse between the electrician shop and the warehouse door . he fell to the ground and said he felt the wind was knocked out of him . become recordable injury when on 8/25/10 a ct revealed fractured ribs .
employee was making belt splice with belt monkey when slate bar slipped striking and bruising left shoulder .
the employee was using a sledge hammer to clear a bin . on his backswing the employee lost his grip with his right hand , causing the weight of the hammer to shift , straining his left shoulder .
the injures employee was adjusting a conveyor belt when he accidentally placed his left hand on a moving roller . his had was pulled underneath the roller crushing his hand .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 4 face in the 4 right cross-cut of the number 2 section . fall measured 20 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' high . fall was on top of a fletcher rrii roof bolting machine . no miners were affected by the fall .
employee was exiting company vehicle when wind caught door slamming it on employee's middle finger of left hand causing cut which required medical treatment ( employee given   4 sutures ) .
employee stepped off a ledge and hurt his right knee .
while working on the feed hopper at the plant , the miner scraped employee's left arm against the edge of a sharp piece of metal and cut employee's lower arm . employee went to the hospital where employee received two stitches .
employee stepped onto empty pallet that was on the new bag storage rack . the empty pallet was not completely supported on the west side . when he stepped on the west side , his weight caused the pallet   to flip up and it hit his hand , breaking the outside bone of his right hand .
employee had finished helping unload pipe and tubing at the screen room and was cleaning up for lunch . he walked back to the primary power house with coworker to wash their hands . employee went into convulsions   . ems was called and transported him to the hospital .
the employee hand was laying on top of the roof bolt machine when a piece of top brock fell and struck him on the left middle finger .
employee moving dragline cable stepped into a dragline shoe track and employee's left knee buckled . pain and swelling developed over the remainder of employee's shift and persisted over the weekend . employee referred to doctor on 5/23 for evaluation . mri completed 6/2 .
victim was attempting to hook up a miner booster pump to the front of the forklift operated by another employee . employee accidentally hit the articulation lever and injured was caught between the forks and the pump resulting in a fractured pelvis .
finger locks up caused by continual use of impact tools over many years without using gloves . scheduled for surgery . received diagnosis from doctor on 2/1/02 . no evidence of prior treatment .
stepped off his tractor into a puddle . rolled his foot on a rock in the puddle which rolled his right knee inwards . possible torn ligament . sent to specialist and mri . first shift missed 10-27-03 .
employee was bolting near the face . a slab approximately   30 '' x 18 '' x 6 '' fell and struck his hard hat and right shoulder . he returned light duty .
employee stated he was walking out of pump bldg . at 31x river mains and struck his head against top of door frame .
a roof fall occurred in the 1a submain , cross-cut number 12 in the number 1 entry . the fall is 8 to 10 feet high , 22 feet long and 18 feet wide .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in first left submains number 4 entry at break # 53. the fall was approximately 20 ' by 25 ' by 40 '' .
employee was watching cm operator cut down stone during stone work when a piece of small metal came off the cutter head striking employee in the right cheek . personal protective equipment was not a factor , mining equipment/mining systems was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , miner proficiency may be a factor .
employee was in process of removing lagging from number 3 tail pulley . the chain used to hold the belt was under rated . chain broke and come-along struck worker in back of right shoulder . worker sustained   contusion of right shoulder .
employee stated that the day before , 8-6-01 he was putting a shuttle valve on a shield and aggravated his back .
employee had been painting steel beams with a brush out of a 5 gallon bucket of primer paint . he moved the 5 gallon bucket and when he put it down , his lower back went out .
injured was pulling on a continuous miner cable to get it out of the travelway . when he tried to lift the cable up , he twisted his right leg . he did not seek medical attention at that time . it began to bother him later on and sought medical attention . he began to miss work beginning on january 10 , 2012 .
injured was operating a 21 sc shuttle car on the number 2 section mobile mining unit 003-0 while traveling 1a the number 5 entry 40 ' inby the intersection , a rib of approximately   size 29 '' long x 36 '' wide x 1 '' to 6 '' thick fell into the   operator's compartment , striking him on the right leg , resulting in possible knee damage .
a roof fall measuring 30 ' length , 20 ' wide , and 7 ' thick was discovered in the return entry 1500 ' outby the working face . the area was developed november 07 with 5 ' torque tension roof bolts . the fall occurred due to shale mixed with coal streaks above the anchorage zone . fall location was in number 2 entry on 1st left panel near spad 58748 .
employee opened a can of pneu wear and inhaled vapors
a roof fall occurred at cross-cut number 79 an old 6b track . the fall was about 120' long , 20' wide , and 4 to 7' high . the area was bolted with 5 ' torque tension bolts . the area will be cleaned up and rebolted .
employee was examining fresh cut coal face , when a piece of rock , approx 4 ' x 3 ' x 2 '' , fell from the top . the rock struck the employee's hand , smashing it against the boom of the roof bolter . this caused a laceration on employee's left hand , right shoulder and lower leg .
employee was operating the miner when a rock rolled off the rib hitting him in the side and foot .
employee was bolting when hot lime traveled to the face in the water and employee came in contact with it . this in turn gave him burns on his skin .
was using a railroad jack to jack up a header . when employee was letting the header down the jack caught and the bar came up and hit employee in the chin . this resulted in a small laceration and a chipped bottom tooth .
employee was helping coworker with welding a plate for shaker 2 and something went into employee's left eye causing pain . he then went to occupational health and they referred him to eye doctor . he has a scratch on his left eye due to a foreign object . must have flown into his eye . eye protection was being worn at the time .
employee was helping unload coke rail cars . when the car was empty he was to unhook the chain connecting the car shaker to rail car . he did not do so and when the hoist was lifted and car started   to move the tension on the chain caused it to snap and swing in his direction and come in contact with his left arm , face , and ribs .
rock fall occurred on the 4 right panel off 6 west submains in the number 6 entry starting at break number 6 and extending to break # 8. fall measured approximately 19 ' wide x 188 ' long x 10 ' thick .
the employee was helping to install a curved protective liner on the raw mill roll yoke . a hooking eye was welded onto the yoke and a 1 1/2 ton chain hoist was used to lift the yoke . as the chain was   being tightened , the eye broke causing the yoke to fall striking the employee in the right shin .
he was getting into a pick up truck when his foot slipped on the rocker panel causing him to twist his right knee . he continued to work at his regular duties until 6/16/09 when he was removed from work for a medical meniscus tear of the right knee . ( employee started losing time again on 1/14/10 due to increased pain and pending surgery . )
employee was loading flue dust into a truck . a rope used in the loading process became entangled around his leg . the employee attempted to break his fall by grabbing a handrail . the employee's left shoulder was in the process of controlling his fall .
the employee was rock bolting standing on muck pile of uneven material . he stepped back to pull the bolter out of the hole onto a rock and twisted his right knee . he reported the injury to his supervisor   but did not go to doctor until 1/17/01 . he received a full duty release to return to work we were unaware he was continuing to have problems with his knee until we were notified on 5/4/01 by worker
a roof fall was discovered in number 4 entry 1 break inby spad 480 the estimated size of roof fall is 6 ft high 18 ft wide and 40 ft long . no injuries where reported as a result of this roof fall .
employee stated he felt pain in his right wrist when inserting the male plug from the charger cable into the female plug of the battery cable to charge batteries . after an examination upon the doctor's visit , the clinical impression reveals tendonitis of the right wrist .
while opening a silo gate the employee felt a strain in employee's lower back .
employee went to grease line for number 2 conveyor when employee tripped , not sure what employee tripped over , tried to catch self and hand landed on a rock causing a laceration . laceration required 4 stitches .
employee was climbing onto temp catwalk , lost balance and fell onto knee .
employee had returned to work in light duty capacity from previous injury 3/9/09 -- was assigned to indoor painting of 9' x 15 ' block room using paint roller and 3 and 4 '' paint brushes -- employee alleges that painting activity performed 12/7 through 12/11 resulted in causing pain in right hand .
employee bent down to walk under a kiln dryer and felt a sensation in lower back . an mri revealed a swollen or herniated disk . chiropractic treatment has been administered and there has been no lost time for this plant supervisor .
bicep sprain due to carrying box of large screws at work ( 20 lb box ) .
an unintentional roof fall occurred during retreat mining . as continued . miner was backing from cut the roof measuring approximately   15 ' wide x 20 ' long x 3 1/2' high , fell onto miner . a retriever was used to remove   machine from fall area , no injuries or property damage occurred . area was timbered off and mining resumed on next pillar .
employee went to clean up under the hoist motor coupling and was going to give the motor coupling a quick wipe because it was a ripping grease onto the floor . it caught her glove somehow and pulled her finger into the bolt hole . she felt a tug and a sting and when she looked . the tip of her finger was gone .
employee was setting light plants up for the night mine crew . he was attempting to attach q15 light plant to his pickup , light plant jack was to low so employee attempted to lift the light plant onto his truck hitch . in doing so he strained his lower back , he went to doctor 7/8/08 and was placed in light duty .
employee was deburring bushings he had made for shovel brake side plates . the bushings are 3 '' x 3/4 '' long . when he was scaping the burr off the edge of one of the bushing with a deburring tool his hand   slipped and   he cut his left base of thumb . required sutures .
employee reached with left hand to stop a bag coming down conveyor chute and felt something pop in his left elbow . a visit to doctor on 09/25/2009 revealed a strained tendon and nerve as it was pushed across a bone spur already present at this site . employee was put on light duty until october 1 , 2009. no days of lost work are expected .
while welding , employee chipped some slag and it went in his left ear . employee began missing work on 9/23/03 .
operator of 631e , employee collided with another 631e driver by ( employee's name ) injured employee was only person injured .
injured employee was struck on hard hat by draw rock that slid down his back onto his left lower leg resulting in fractures to 4th and 5th metatarsal bone on left foot .
employee was attempting to unhook from a dust trailer when the latch jammed causing him to strain his back . his back continued to hurt and on 7-15-02 he began to miss work .
while the employee was driving out broken bolts from the ac500 crusher , the 4-pound hammer deflected off of a broken bolt and struck the back of his right hand .
employee was inspecting the bolts condition of a limestone feeder conveyor . employee tripped with the electrical cord when employee tried to prevent falling , when employee tried to pick up an electrical light , and put left hand inside the dolly rail , employee pulled the stop emergency cord but one dolly pinched left index finger , dislocating it . employee has not missed any days from work but is working on restrictions .
employee was operating shuttle car when rib rolled out pinning right arm against shuttle car . employee received 16 stitches to right forearm .
employee claims that at the end of his shift he was getting off the water truck when he fell . he got up and walked off to his van pool never reported any accident to the mine . hip fracture . hospital contacted asarco today with a verbal phone call . there is no evidence supporting that the accident occurred on property .
employee was traveling into the mine when a rock approximately 6 ' x 6 ' x 8 ' rolled down an angle of repose , jumped a safety berm and struck the side of his 992 loader . employee was thrown out of the cab and received a cut on top of his head and on his left elbow .
employee fractured left heel after losing his balance on the upper deck of the omnicone   ladder at the feed box and falling 4 ft to deck below , weight landing on heel .
employee was trouble shooting kiln 4 lime skip and was jogging the skip for testing purposes . he left the jog station , proceeded around the back of the skip area towards the north , and hit his left leg on a piece of expanded metal that was propped up against the structure . when this leg caught the expanded metal , the other leg caught the inlet pipe to the air compressor .
member was at the raw coal silo helping get feeders running . water had been utilized to wash raw coal . when water and mud broke loose and knocked member to floor causing a laceration to his left upper eye lid which required 12 stitches ,
employee was bailing water out of a boat with a 3.5 gallon bucket . the employee twisted back causing a lumbosacral sprain .
employee was welding overhead when a spark or piece of slag entered ear and burned ear drum . employee was diagnosed on 9-22 after seeing physician . employee was scheduled to take one weeks vacation week of 8-2 5 and will return to work on 10-2-00 .
employee stated while removing structure from the 4 right longwall belt . he grabbed a top roller and went to throw it onto the top of the belt and felt pain in his right shoulder and bicep area .
member was putting grease in right side tank . he slipped and fell when he was crossing over to the left side tank . he was not diagnosed until 9/8/05
when the kiln was turned and water came in contact with hot kiln chains and materials , a sudden positive pressure was created throughout the kiln system , ejecting steam and hot dust through an open door on the drag conveyor , causing the employee to be burned .
fractured right big toe when it was caught between clevis and frame of headgate drive .
employee was getting off of the drill . he snagged a cable bolt and fell down . he somehow jammed his right shoulder and returned in a restricted capacity .
miner was carrying a piece of debris when employee tripped over an outstretched hose and dropped down to one knee .
employee was standing on top of a conveyor belt and reaching for a cable when his foot slipped causing pain in his leg .
employee was walking to his ride when a suttlecar cable hit him on the knee . he did not miss work but was on restricted duty for 14 days . he returned to full duty 1-8-08 .
employee was bent over in a small area and tried turning to tighten some bolts when his back popped .
employee fractured right forearm when struck by a wheel unit of a cable dolly while raising the wheels for transport .
placing punch plate in place , plate slipped and smashed left ring finger between screen and boot . 6 stitches were received at enumclaw emergency room . injured employee was immediately released to return to work .
employee was removing parts from the instrument repair van . as he stepped out of the van he felt his knee pop . no treatment at the time . didn't get better . had mri found tear of left knee medial   meniscus . surgery on 1/21/03 . lost time .
installing heel plate ( wear it on ) on 992 g caterpillar loader bucket , the mechanic reached to align plate that was located on hydraulic jack , the plate slipped off the jack and landed on left ( 5th digit ) finger .
employee was lubricating a bearing of a conveyor and slip from equipment frame . he try hold from the door of the discharge for avoid a fall to the equipment platform 10 ft height approximately   but the door   opened up and hit him on his arm .
employee was in the process of moving the miner cable over from away from the continuous miner by using a pry bar , when the bar slipped and hit the employee in the mouth dislodging a permanent tooth .
wind blew dirt in eye while performing maintenance work . employee received more than one dose of prescription eye drops . this claim is currently being contested .
when getting down from trackhoe after filling up the greaser , he slipped on some grease and landed on his right shoulder . fall resulted in dislocation of right shoulder .
walking on wet scale walkway . left leg slipped and twisted right leg/knee . outboard side of scale walk is 80' x 3 ' with 4 ' handrail . first 33 ' was covered with roll roofing for anti-slip . employee exited cab and was walking on non-covered surface .
the employee was trying to get a valve closed using a dead blow hammer , when employee felt pain in employee's right shoulder .
employee was lifting cable to top and felt a strain in lower groin area . he did not miss work or seek medical attention until 3-23-03 , in which i was notified of this accident . on 3-27 he sought medical   attention and was given rest with no lifting or bending and referred to his family doctor .
employee was in the process of spreading a horizontal flange , the residual liquor sprayed him in the left eye . he is not losing any time and is not on work restrictions .
employee was climbing down off of the lube truck and grabbed the rail with his left hand . when he went to grab the nipple of the grease tank with his right hand he missed his point of contact and fell   backwards losing his grip and falling approximately ft to the ground landing on his right arm and causing a fracture above the wrist .
details are unavailable . under investigation . doctor report received from employee's personal physician indicates employee stressed from both off-work and work environment . employee has not filed a report of injury or illness .
roof fall in number 2 entry of the mine mouth . the fall measured 4 ' high , 4' wide , and 15 ' long . the fall opened a gap between the highwall and fan housing . no equipment was damaged or injuries occurred because of the fall .
employee had wet down the muck pile , while rolling up water hose employee slipped on some residual hard-cap paste landing on employee's right arm . at the end of shift employee requested to be seen by the pogo physician's assistant where it was determined to send employee to fairbanks for an x-ray ; which was definitive for a fracture . employee is onsite currently with restrictions and a splint/cast .
roof fall - intake slope entry , starting at the outby side of break number 5 , approximately 28 feet long , 17 feet wide and 5 feet in height . no one was injured and no equipment involved . found at 7:37 am and reported to mine safety and health administration at 7:43 am . mine safety and health administration inspectors on site after reporting by phone .
employee shoveling truck body out and pinched hand between shovel and truck wall .
a roof fall occurred during retreat mining , pulling two rows of bolts in front of the number 1 mrs unit . the area was previously supported with 5 ' high-tech bolts . there were no injuries to persons . the fall was located at 1-right north-2 at spad 1470 , at break number 39 .
employee was welding on a 18 '' pipe and had completed a portion of the task , he was preparing to roll the pipe , and with his leather welding glove partially on , grabbed the ground lead to the welder   that had been turned off . he received 2nd degree burn to his left hand on the web between finger 1 and 2 .
employee positioned water truck to be filled and proceeded to fill tank . after it was full he went to shut off water valve and twisted his ankle on a rock fixed in the gravel and fell on his left side .
employee pinched finger between dumpster and forklift while attempting to open lid on dumpster .
employee was on his knees shoveling out the feet when screen wire being transported on the panline hit a rock causing the wire to strike employee on the left shoulder . lost time injury .
unintentional roof fall 3rd east panel number 4 and number 5 entry and cross-cut between the two entries 4 way intersection 2250 ' mask . bolted with 8 ' tr bolt , approximately   date of development 5-05 25' x 85 ' wide x 9 ' high .
employee was lowering a canopy with his hand on the canopy stack when his right index finger was pulled down into the stack causing a severe laceration on the tip of his finger .
employee poked a hole in the water line on the 10a booster . the water line busted and shoved the razor knife that he was holding in his left hand and shoved the blade into his right hand causing a laceration .
employee was shoveling onto a conveyor belt . as he raised a shovel of dirt he felt pain from his right wrist to right forearm . employee sought medical attention on 2-25-03 but continued to work until 3-4- 03 which was his first day off due to injury .
spondylolisthesis , disc degeneration
3/23/00 employee was running a roof bolter and tripped over the cable falling into the bumper of the roof bolter , hurting his ribs . he did not go to the doctor 4/6/00 employee was loading a belt structure into scoop and felt a pop in his ribs . employee then went to the doctor .
employee was setting shield number 79 on the o-panel longwall and his right foot was caught underneath the pontoon and relay bar of the shield which initially resulted in fractures of the foot and ankle then later required amputation of the right foot .
employee was opening a desk drawer . he pulled it hard and hit his left knee . the employee was put on restricted duty after having orthopedic surgery on 6/25/02 .
employee had felt a little lump near belly button area and wasn't feeling any pain at the time . employee started feeling a soreness where the lump was on 07/24/2016 and thought it may go away , it had only gotten worse so employee reported it on 07/26/2016 .
when employee's left foot stepped from the ladder onto the surface it slipped from the ladder to a cleat in the walkway . the employee was able to catch self with employee's right arm by hanging onto a ladder rung . the employee felt strain in shoulder and knee but continued working . asked to see a doctor on 2/4/2106 at which time employee was placed on restriction
an unintentional fall occurred on the second bench of the high wall between the return and portal entries . the piece of rock that fell measured approximately 25 ft long x 14 ft wide x 6 ft thick . in the fall two man trip barns and one 2 man personal carrier were damaged .
employee was changing a punch plate screen on a metso screen top deck . he and another were letting the screen down to the catwalk when it got hung up on the side of the screen . while trying to free it , the screen fell causing him to smash his right index finger between the screen and guard .
employee was helping the mechanic prepare the d11n to weld the left side of the hard bar . employee raised the dozer up in order to crib up the track frame . while dismounting the dozer cab , from the left side   , employee slipped , falling onto the track frame , hitting his head on the tilt cylinder , suffering a laceration to his head . the site conditions were sunny , temperature   of 25 degrees , ground frozen .
on 3/9/2012 at approximately 6:05 pm a roof fall was discovered in an inactive area of the old 2 east mains . this area is not required to be traveled . the fall was breakered off on all approaches . the fall did not effect travel of ventilation. continuation 4/27/12 fall extends to entry number 7 and now meas . approximately   20 ' wide x 130 ' long x 6 ' thick . has been breakered off on all approaches .
the employee was working inside the 2nd floor motor control center electrical room running conduit for new lighting . the employee committed an unsafe act by choosing to ride the trolley box to gain access to the ladder across the room . the employee fell approximately 20 feet landing on back side . the job safety analysis stated employee should have completed the work from the ladder .
was doing a mine examination ( pre-shift ) of a belt line . as he was walking he slipped on the wet bottom and began to fall . he used his left arm to catch himself and sprained/strained his left elbow .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 1 entry of tg-101 . the fall is between cross-cut 27 and 28. the fall is approximately 50 ft long by 20 feet wide by 18 feet high . the area had been supported by 8 ft   torque tension bolts supplemented with wire mesh . there is evidence of slickenside materials in the upper portions of the fall .
found roof fall in the number   1 entry approximately   400 ft from the face . fall occurred in the intersection . 20 ft wide , 20 ft long , 6 ft thick . this is active non-producing status . no coal being produced at this mine . no one was in the mine when the fall occurred .
bent down to pick up a tool belt weighing 3 pounds and felt a pain in his lower back . emergency room evaluation on 10-17 , see specialist on 10-18. evaluated   by special on 10-18 , off work until 10-20 . returned to work on 10-20 .
during cathode harvest in the east tankhouse , he was descending the stairs when his pant leg caught on a grating clip and he fell down the stairs , straining his right shoulder . he was taken to emergency room , given medication for pain . on march 3 , at follow-up , doctor pulled him off work until an mri with orthopedic surgeon could evaluate his condition , approximately   4 weeks .
employee reported on 3-1-2010 he felt pain in right groin while assisting in lifting a steel plate. he did not request medical treatment at the time of report . 12 days later he did seek medical treatment and was diagnosed with a hernia and scheduled for surgery on 3-26-2010 and estimated to be off work for 4 weeks .
employee was injured when sprayed with freon while working on a d11t dozer . the employee drained the system of freon and while unhooking the air conditioning line when some residual pressurized r134 freon escaped and sprayed on to his right arm and chest area causing frostbite . the location of the line also makes it difficult to get out of the way in such occurrence .
employee was helping remove a guard on his own climbed a chute while doing this he placed his hand on the scalper laying it on employee's hand he pulled his hand back and slipped falling to floor below breaking   his right leg below the knee
employee was walking along the beltline by drive . he said he slipped off planking laid down for walkway , strained left knee . cause of injury was awareness . compliance with rules/regulations a factor . miner proficiency may be a factor . safety equipment could be a factor . mining equipment/systems not a factor . first day missed was 1-22-2001 .
employee was going to go though a curtain to get to the intake airway he run over a block putting his scoop in the top with his hand or top of the scoop .
employee was filling windshield wash reservoir and it squirted into right eye . employee was wearing safety glasses . the fluid came up and under the bottom of the glasses .
during a weekly airway examination a roof fall was discovered in number 1 entry 6 cross-cuts outby the face at spad # 998. the fall has been cribbed off with danger signs and will not require clean-up . the fall measured 20 feet x 20 feet and 6 to 7 feet high . the intersection showed signs of failure during development and 6 foot doublelock bolts were used in the intersection .
employee was dismounting the front end loader in 11-99 and injured his left shoulder but no medical attention was sought at the time . recently his shoulder began to bother him and medical attention   was sought and surgery was done on left rotator cuff on 5-17-00 .
employee said that he turned his knee when dismounting dozer . he does not know what time it occurred . he informed me of event one day after happening .
employee was assisting with installation of grizzly bars in lower feeder when chain slipped , causing bars to pinch thumb between side of feeder and bars resulting in stitches to his left thumb and a broken knuckle . employee is performing his normal duties , but did receive a prescription .
employee states that while he was adjusting the saw table his foot slipped on the wet floor which may also have had some oil on it . his leg stretched out and he felt a slight pull in his groin . he was prescribed naproxen and put on temporary restrictions .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 south number 2 intake air course . the fall was located at number 18 cross-cut 2 south number 2 in number 9 entry . the fall measures approximately 40 ' in length by 18 ' wide and approximately 6 ' to 8 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin roof bolts plus 10 ' point anchor bolts .
employee was standing on a pile of marl while working on stamler . his foot slipped as he was pulling on a pipe wrench and he felt a pain between his shoulder blades . he continued to work but pain   came back later that day and he went to the doctor .
employee was operating a shuttle car when the shuttle car struck a rut causing back pain . employee was initially given a full release but on 4/30/2018 employee returned to doctor and was taken off work at which time the incident became reportable .
employee was training conveyor belt , while moving top roller , draw rock measuring 3' x 12 '' x3 '' fell catching his hand between belt structure and drawrock . this caused a severe cut to his hand and crushing   injury to his thumb .
while completing maintenance on a vertical shaft impactor crusher and changing teeth , the miner twisted to grab parts and sprained their lower back .
employee needed to shut down the palletizer quickly , but when she turned to go to shut down the switch , she slipped on the metal grating and then tripped and fell onto the grating . she has a contusion on the lower lip , left knee , and her ring finger on right hand .
employee was moving a vibrator from the pocket of one rail car to the the next for transloading material from rail cars to trucks when he strained his back . employee did not seek medical treatment until 6/30/14 where he was treated with prescription meds , time off , and modified work restrictions .
employee was torching off a bearing race on a shaft . apiece of slag entered the bottom of the tongue area of his boot , burning the top of the foot and between the 3rd and 4th toes .
employee was rigging a 1 ton come along to access door which was new and was pulling it in place with come along , then stopped . employee on other side of door with crow bar working the door back of forth when door slanted come along come loose and hit employee in forehead and hard hat causing small laceration to forehead took to clinic for couple of suture and returned with a the hour .
a maintenance technician at the hartwell site received a laceration to his right index finger requiring 10 stitches . the technician was removing a 6 inch diameter x 3 foot long rubber boot from a 48 " dewco vibratory screen . the technician was taken to the hart county emergency room for treatment and released .
around 6:30 pm a fire was discovered at the st. leo substation that supplies power to st. leo fan . it is believed an insulator was penetrated , or failed , causing a short circuit and throwing transformer oil , with the oil catching fire and burning poles and the transformer . fire extinguished around 7:30 pm . no problem with training , personal protective equipment , mining equipment , or compliance issues .
carrying a piece of rhino-ride from 155 to 158 shield in panline . foot slipped off wet chain and he felt pain in lower back .
employee was unloading pans from a supplies trailer in panel em02 . pans slid off trailer striking employee on top of right foot .
while loading the bolter , employee tripped and cut his arm on a truss bolt . medical treatment injury ( 7 sutures ) .
employee was at the clay pit and operating a trac loader . while backing up , the loader shifted and the movement caused pain to the employee's neck and back . he was taken for medical treatment and returned to work on light duty .
employee walked off the concrete by the cone crusher and landed wrong on his left leg . heard it pop and his leg gave out .
a grass fire started on the west side of the haul road in area c. the fire burned 15 minutes on permitted mine property . fire was contained and extinguished using mine equipment and local fire departments . fire was reported to mine safety and health administration prior to learning it burned only 15 minutes on mine permit . all personnel were accounted for and uninjured . unknown how the fire started
employee needed to open clean-out gate on elevator belt ( bucket type ) . he was attempting to use ( swing ) an 8 lb . sledge-type hammer , and strained his lower back while doing so . employee said it occurred while swinging from an awkward position .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the number 1 entry , 8475 north . the fall was approximately 30 ' long , approx 20 ' wide and approx 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will be cleaned up .
victim was in boat unhooking chain from pipeline , when operator lifted . chain with loader to move over hook caught causing chain to mash victims finger between chain and side of boat . we did'nt   think he was hurt badly but swelling a few days later caused us to sent to doctor on 2-7-00 .
employee stepped in a hole and fell down , twisting his knee .
employee alleges laceration of left thumb .
employee was starting switch at head section . as he stepped on a piece of angle iron the angle iron broke causing employee to fall , twisting his knee .
a roof fall in the south west   ventilation entries at cross-cut number 23 number 1 entry measuring approximately 50 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . the area was mined in may 2000 and supported with 6 ' tension rebar roof bolts .
employee stated that while lifting 6 '' pvc pipe to hang on chains along the 1 south conveyor belt he felt a pain in the lower middle section of his abdomen . employee finished the shift but was later diagnosed with a hernia requiring surgery to repair .
injured was bolting top when : a piece of rock fell between bolts and atrs striking canopy the sliding down striking injured .
employee was pulling on a bar , pushing grease jack back on miner . while pulling bar felt pain in groin area .
employee was operating a johnson four-wheeler . as he turned to back the mantrip up he had his right leg crossed under his left leg when he suddenly experienced pain in his right knee .
employee was hit in the right eye with a piece of metal while working on a break in job . eyelid swollen upon leaving job site . employee was kept awake from the pain . reported to medical the following morning and was sent to williamson eye center . diagnosed with lid edema , spic . prescribed zylet .
as employee was getting out of a mantrip at cross-cut 65 in the left mains , his left foot got stuck in the mud and he strained his left knee as he lifted his leg . employee continued to work until 6/16/2010 , at which time he had surgery on his left knee .
a roof fall approximately   20' x 20' x 9 ' was discovered in the number 2 entry of the 6 right   panel . the area was soft shale with water coming through the roof .
employee was getting ready to get on the elevator to start his shift . there was a speed reducer sitting on the outside of the elevator on the surface that needed transported underground . employee along with another employee picked up the speed reducer to load it on the elevator when employee felt pain in his lower back . employee finished his shift , went to the doctor , diagnosed employee with a pulled muscle .
employee was initiating a bank push of the panline at number 4 shield , e-15 longwall section . the number 3 shield slid back causing strain on the high pressure shield to shield hose , resulting in the manifold breaking off and he was struck in the left thigh by the 1 1/2 '' hose and coupler . the employee sustained a fracture to the left femur of the leg .
the employee was attempting to remove a sprocket from the cutter head of the superior high wall miner by striking it with a 4 lb . hammer . where upon a small piece of metal broke off of the sprocket striking the employee and becoming lodged in his left eye .
while trouble shooting a slipping sample conveyor belt , the employee reached into the head pulley area and caught his right arm resulting in injuries including a fractured little finger , fractured   ulna , chipped elbow , and lacerated bicep .
while loading 18 ' lengths of 1 rebar for snow fence posts . a length of rebar slipped off the rack pinching the meaty palm side end of the ring finger between the rebar and the bed of the pickup . resulting injury was deep 15 mm laceration to tip of ( right ) ring finger on the palmer side .
employee was moving a piece of polypipe with his foot when he stood up and his foot slipped , causing the right ankle to twist .
employee was disconnecting an air hose from a portable air compressor . he thought he had bled the pressure off the hose , but when he broke the connection at the compressor , hydrate and liquor blew out   onto his face and upper body . the burn to both eyes resulted in use of prescription medication and a patch to his right eye , which resulted in temporary restrictions being issued .
employee was washing down a concrete slab with water hose and slipped on hose falling on the left side breaking his femur bone . at first he just thought it was bruised . however , per company policy , he was taken to the medical facility for follow up , where he was examined and had x-rays determining the extent of the injury would need surgery .
employee prying up a track `` bridle bar '' with a ar , felt pain in lower back .
employee was pulling miner cable when he felt a sharp pain in lower back .
in the c right panel in # 15,16,17 cross-cuts in # the number 6 entry we had a roof fall . the 100 f fall is approximately 8-10' high . the fall has now joined 15 through 17 cross-cuts and entry . the fall was cribbed   and made safe . the fall area has been dangered off .
a trespasser ( non-company employee ) came on to the edge of the quarry property and committed suicide . the trespasser was on the edge of the property adjacent to a public road ( quarry road ) .
two employees were attempting to fix a broken anchor cable when the boat flat bottom capsized and threw them into the river . neither were wear life jackets . other was able to hold on to some tanks that   were int he boat and get himself to the shore . employee was last seen trying to swim to shore . employee was found around 7 pm 6-27-00 about 1 1/2 miles
employee has had tingling and numbness over approximately 3 months . has been getting progressively worse . also some burning sensation .
employee was on ladder preparing to hook chains on large hopper to move it to another location , when he leaned over to pick up chains the ladder slipped out on the bottom and employee fell to the ground on   left elbow and left ankle . he sustained left elbow dislocation and sprained left ankle .
employee was helping another employee lift a plate compactor over a concrete form when he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . he was sent to the doctor who diagnosed him with a back strain and released him to work with restrictions .
employee was unloading belt structure out of a scoop bucket which was positioned between the cable car and the belt line . employee stepped between the bucket and the car . the scoop operator didn't see him standing   there and reversed the scoop which caught his knee .
while mixing reagent employee became aware of burning sensation to right wrist . half dollar size second degree chemical burn to right inner wrist .
employee was changing flushing head on the cannon jumbo drill . he then unscrewed the drill steel and tried to beat the retainer ring to get it loose . he pulled the hoses using his left arm against the slide , which wasn't a good location . he let go of the hoses and noticed his left arm was bleeding but he felt no pain . he had a laceration which required 3 sutures to the left forearm .
after removing jaw die , employee was carrying it across parking lot to shop when he slipped on ice and fell - strained wrist .
a roof fall occurred in the number 1 heading on the 8 west section between the number 0 and number 1 cross-cuts . the fall was 18 feet wide by 30 feet long .
employee had completed fueling his dozer . employee was attempting to reel the fuel hose back on the reel . it was dark so the employee was trying to feel the button . he reached passed the reel start button , when his arm hit the button . his right finger was pinched by the gear . employee received stichs in the fingertip and returned to work .
when the storm moved in the area was cleared and at 4:20 lightening struck the bench that was ready to be detonated . the lightening set off 11 holes prematurely .
slipped under quarry truck when fueling . crawled out and cut fingers on metal .
employee was prying a large rock when bar slipped and he tried to step back and hung up heel and fell back on tailbone and left wrist . he fell 18 '' to 24 ''
the employee was helping to remove spillage from loading hopper when he caught his right index finger between a guard and a section chain . the employee sustained a laceration on his finger that required six stitches
employee was helping load a stabilizer bar for a 1500 rock truck onto the bumper of the truck , employee got his thumb between the bumper and the bar , resulting in a laceration to the thumb on right hand . wound required sutures .
during an examination of our redundant phone line a roof fall was found in the primary escape way , m4 mains , cross-cut 64 , entry # 6. no miners were injured , ventilation was not affected , and no miners were trapped due to this roof fall .
injured was crawling the jackline when he hit his head on a shield .
employee was bolting top when a rock fell , mashing and cutting his left ring finger .
employee was lifting jack for bolting machine .
while installing fence wire to the roof in the outby entry , employee lowered the t bar on the bolter . the fence caught the pad of the t bar . the employee tried to push the pad away from the fence when the pad came down and mashed his finger between the pad and the t bar . this resulted in 7 stitches . employee was wearing gloves .
employee was pulling a tub of oil from under a loader , the row rod pulled loose and he fell backward landing on his wrist .
employee was transporting pallets into pack shed with forklift , when wind blew material off pallets into eyes .
when getting into service truck , employee reached for the grab rail to pull himself into the truck . when he did he felt a sharp tear like pain in his right shoulder . employee did not mention this incident until a few days later when he sought medical attention .
employee diagnosed with occupational carpal tunnel on 7/30/2018 . treatment/surgery is pending at this time .
supervisor tried to use 12 gauge shotgun to dislodge a plug in t air duct on preheater tower . he fired gun at point blank range at the plug . the slug shattered and small pieces of lead hit him on right   thumb and forearm . he was sent to emergency room for treatment . they cleaned and dressed the wounds - there were no sutures .
employee was standing on a 8 ' step ladder , hitting on side of chute with sledge hammer . one of the legs of the ladder split causing ladder and employee to fall . seen doctor 10/28/01 x-rayed fracture   of wrist .
while using a utility knife to try and cut open a lid on a bucket the knife slipped striking the employee's hand resulting in a laceration .
employee had finished a belt splice and was carrying an aluminum belt clamp back to the mantrip when he stepped in a hole and sprained his ankle .
employee notified safety of worsening pain in left shoulder . employee had surgery on 10/25/16 and the following noted in the operative report received on 1/3/17 : partial thickness tearing of the anterior distal supraspinatus , glenoid joint anterosuperior synovitis , rotator cuff partial thickness tear , acromioclavicular joint arthrosis , synovitis and hypertrophy .
employee was closing a valve on cement line and felt a pull in his chest .
employee was taking off a 1 1/2 ton come-along when the chain failed . the chain hit the employee under the chin causing his jaws to clamp shut chipping his teeth .
employee driving euclid r60 , bringing sand to asphalt plant . after dumping , he heard a noise coming from left , rear tire area . he exited cab and saw a bulge forming in tire , turned to get away when tire burst . was 10 to 15 feet away when tire burst forcing him to the ground breaking lower left leg . another employee in area when tire blew suffered a ruptured eardrum .
employee was flipping a tread of stone when it came down on his fingers .
employee picked up a nail board from the mantrip , when the board turned , twisting employee's right hand/wrist . on work restrictions for 1 week .
a piece of slab end weighing about 75 lb was sitting on a set of rollers about 42 '' high . employee picked up the piece and put it on a pallet . as he bent over , he felt pain in his back . he continued to work the rest of the day . the next day employee reported the accident and reported off work .
while performing his regular duty of inspecting rail car doors , employee used an unorthodox and unsafe procedure to conduct his task . he stated that while working in the dark , he had placed his flashlight     in his mouth to hold it while he inspected the car doors . he then said he slipped and fell , causing the flashlight to hit the car , damaging his teeth and injuring his shoulder as he a
miners were working in the mine when one of the itx gas detectors went into alarm with 2ppm so2 . not knowing the source the mine was evacuated as a precautionary measure and mine safety and health administration notified . subsequent checks with a dragger hand pump and other investigation we determined that it was a false reading related to itx so2 calibration .
installing bit sleeve on a continuous miner with a two pound hammer when a sliver of metal broke off of the sleeve , going through mechanics glove and cutting knuckle of left index finger .   5 stitches were required to close the wound . he was released and returned to work the next day
employee was carrying an electrical disconnect up the stairs , slipped on a frosty step and put his knee in an awkward position .
employee slipped on floor while lacing raise . strained right shoulder .
employee was roof bolting when a piece of rock measuring 1 '' x 1' x 1' dislodged from roof striking employee on his right knee . employee continued working until 10/24/03 at which time employee started missing work .
individual was retrieving downhole delays from daybox when a gust of wind blew the daybox door closed on persons finger . individual was seen by medical professionals , in the emergency room , at douglas hospital and received 5 stitches to the middle finger of his left hand .
employee was walking on a lowboy loading ramp and slipped , falling onto the ramp . employee put his arm out to stop his fall and strained his shoulder . placed on restricted duty 1-25-11 per doctor .
( francis drilling fluids ) francis drilling fluids driver raised the safe rack to close employee's lids due to the way employee was lined up . employee got back on employee's truck to close employee's lids and fell to the ground .
roof fall found on 4/17/06 at 8:00 am . fall occurred between 4/15/06 and 4/17/06 . roof fall was in number 4 entry near spad # 80. it was approximately   55 ft long x 20 ft wide x 5 ft thick . roof fall was approximately   8500 ft away from working face . area was developed in 1978 and supported with 48 in . resin bolts . area was breakered off and dangered off .
2 experienced and skilled maintenance specialists were removing a stationary seal plate from a rotary dryer . 1 man freed the plate from its retaining bolt it rotated on its pivot and caught the left hand   of the other man between seal plates the plate then came into brief contact with the rotating dryer further injuring his hand resulting in multiple fractures and lacerations no damage or impact
employee alleges that after dumping material from his truck on the leach pad , he lowered the truck bed and when the bed came into contact with the truck frame , the employee felt pain in his lower back .
employee was changing out an old screen cloth and was moving the tension bar from the old screen . employee was getting help from another employee . the first employee was pulling on the tension bar to the right while the 2nd employee hit the bar with a lump hammer dislodging it from the screen frame , pinching 1st employee's left thumb between the bar and the frame .
a roof fall measuring 60 ' long 18 ' wide 6 ' thick was discovered in the return entry spad 21542. fall was 11,800 ' from the active section in an area developed 02/97 with 5 ' resin bolts . neither ventilation nor the passage of men was affected , no injuries or equipment damage occurred from the fall . the perimeter of the fall was resupported   with timbers and barricaded .
employee was pinning top in the face area when he caught his hand between drill steel and canopy bruising his right hand .
employee was drilling bolt hole-head on pinner stopped up dropped head reached over to check suction on head . drill steel fell out of hole , striking him on finger . went to doctor on 6/21/07 - returned   6/22/07 .
employee was cutting plastic glue bucket while doing so the belt knife slipped crossing his left hand cutting it . gloves were worn at the time of the accident .
at approximately 5:55 am , it was found that the uninterruptible power supply ( uninterruptible power supply ) on our number 1 secondary escape shaft was not working causing communication issues . it took approximately 9 hours for us to identify the cause of the issues and return the hoist to normal operation .
after attaching the   d   ring to the top of the skid steer , employee stepped off of the bucket and twisted his right ankle .
injured worker was scraping bed of truck when a chunk of drycon fell from top of the bed striking her in the elbow .
roof fall occurred out by face app 1200 ft on intake hallway , cause is believed to be of material failure .
a unplanned roof fall occurred in the 1st panel in the number 7 entry at spad 1686 in the return air course . fall is approximately   5,700 ' from nearest active section . fall will not be rehabilitated . passage of person and ventilation was not affected . fall measures   160' x 20' x 4 ' area was initially supported with 5 ' torque tension roof bolts . federal and state agencies were notified immediately .
employee was searching for a tool prior to shift in the locker . the employee went to store the tool bag back in the locker and as employee was putting the tool bag back in the locker employee felt a pop in the lower back . employee was issued restrictions .
employee was cutting steel with a torch when hot slag fell into ear canal .
four employees were attaching a jack hammer attachment to a brokk machine . as the employees started to lift the attachment to connect it onto the brokk machine , one of the employees felt a pop in his right shoulder . the employee was taken to st. elizabeth hospital . he was seen by doctor and was diagnosed with a strained right shoulder .
employee took off sandblasting helmet to check area that had been blasted when trigger on blaster hose accidentally got hit causing blaster to start which cause blasting media to hit employee on left side   of face causing skin abrasion .
changing primary fuel filter on cat 980f . employee descended ladder and lost grip/fell . employee landed on left hip/buttock . nurseline called and advised self-care with ice/ibuprofen for pain/swelling . case handled as first aid until employee requested follow-up care 10/14/2013 . x-ray and catscan were negative , but doctor put employee off work 7 days .
employee was splitting stone with a 6 pound trimmer when he hit his left thumb on mistake . employee suffered a fracture on the tip of left thumb .
employee was working in finish mill building when employee started feeling dizzy . employee walked outside to get some fresh air . employee sat down to rest and tried to stand up employee realized employee was too dizzy , nauseated , and could not see very well . employee then laid down on the walk way until help could arrive and went to emergency room . note : employee did state at beginning of shift that employee was not feeling well
employee was replacing the grating on the northwest trailer pad launder . he had one foot in the launder and the one foot on the pad . when he pulled a grate into place he felt a pop in his lower back .
the dragline operator sustained a sprain to the left ankle while exiting the dragline . the injured miner was stepping off the ladder onto the dragline shoe and rolled ankle when employee stepped on an object on the shoe .
maintenance employees removing the right rear leaf spring from a lube truck . spring had been unbolted and was being lifted out by 3 employees . the employee at the edge of the truck was told to let go . the spring rolled on its side , pinching another employees small finger causing a small cut requiring two stitches .
injury was attaching a hitch to a getman tractor for a rock duster . he was holding the hitch up while putting the pin in the hole . he dropped the pin in and let go of the coupling mashing his finger under the pin when the coupling fell in place .
report late due to no contractor id # . employee contacted 4160v bus bar . employee mistakenly disconnected wrong cut out switch on power pole . employee trying to change out cable to 4160v motor when contact was made . employee slightly burned on right hand and thigh . taken to hospital , he was treated and released . after discussion with mine safety and health administration and receiving contractor # report submitted .
employee was installing the christmas star and the wrench slipped and hit employee on the forehead causing a cut .
employee was loosing bolt on kiln feed pump . another employee was using pry bar to separate the runner ; the pry bar slipped pinching right pinky finger between pulley and belt .
employee had been cutting a suspension pit . was wearing shield , debris build up on top of hat , when he lifted shield , debris fell into his eye . employee did not seek medical attention until 12-01-2003 .
employee cut thumb with knife while cutting rubber belt sheet .
a customers truck stalled and employee jumped out of the loader and ran under the crusher to get a chain to pull the truck out of the way . he raised up too soon under the crusher and hit his head and neck , knocking him flat . he received a 3/4 '' cut on the top/back of his head .
at approximately 10:15am it was discovered that the 3 mile air shaft emergency stationary hoist guide rails were damaged . the damaged to the guide rails was caused by ground moving .
third shift crew was replacing a bad pump located in the creek on the surface . the crew foreman strained his back and later sought medical attention . he was given medications and taken off work . he missed 3 days work during the following week . he returned to work on 9/19/11 and has missed no more work . the safety department learned of this accident on 9/19/11 and began investigating .
employee was mounting a cutter motor on a continuous miner . employee lost balance while stepping off on an 18 '' high rail causing employee to fall backward . a pry bar employee was using struck employee in the right side as employee fell causing a 1 '' laceration .
employee was operating bolt machine while putting the last roll in the number 4 heading when a piece of rock fell from the t bar mashing his right hand on the drill pot . the rock measured 3 ' long x 10 '' wide and 8 '' thick .
employee was working on the scalping screen on tower # 1. employee was grinding the buildup off the screen . later discovered that something was in left eye which progressively became more annoying . employee contacted superintendent and was told to go to the clinic for medical care . foreign body was found in left cornea and referred to an ophthalmologist for removal and cleaning .
roof failure occurred in number   8 entry of 1st main southwest at cross-cut 11 no injuries , damage to ventilation or controls , or impediment to travel in aircourse occurred . the fall is 55 ' long and 19 ; wide . height   can not be determined .
employee was tending miner cable in the number 1 entry of 11th west , when a piece of the rib was dislodged and struck the employee on the right side of his body and knocked him into the shuttle car with the left side of his body .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2nd northeast parallel in the number 2 entry cross-cut 18 , spad # 12+60 . the fall was width - 19.5 ft , height - 8 ft , and length 24 ft .
employee was beating a pin in place with a sledge hammer and started feeling pain in his back .
location : number 4 main ; entry : number 5 belt ; spad no . :1599 ; distance from active face : 2100 ft . airway : neutral ; size : length -60 ft. , width - 20 ft , height - 6 ft . ; roof support : 48 '' resin ; 6 cribs installed prior to fall ; strata : shale , no coal rider seam present ; all entrances are breakered off ; area will be rehabilitated .
employee's hand was pinched between the handle and door latch as he went through a mandoor .
after medical exam . miner has sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis ( black lung ) notification letter from mine safety and health administration .
employee had reported for work at the lab and when he stepped out of his vehicle he turned his ankle .
the employee alleges that he was adjusting the belts of the stone mill , which are very heavy , and when he stood up he felt a strong pain in his lower back .
a rock fall occurred at number 5 2nd east , cross-cut between 2 and 3 entries , spad 13+22 . the fall is approximateley 30 ' long , 20 ' wide and 7 ' high .
employee was chipping scale off pump housing when a chip from the pump housing broke off and impacted subjects face directly below and to the left of his safety glasses , on his left cheek/eye area . the injury became medical treatment when the employee had the foreign body removed on 8/12/14
discovered a roof fall in number 6 entry in the 1st northeast mains about one break inby spad h334 it measured 35' long x 18' wide x 7' thick . no equipment or personnel involved . this fall is in a primary escapeway which has temporarily been rerouted fall will be cleaned up fall reported to mine safety and health administration at 9am on 9/14/00
finished mining and was moving miner . some rock had fallen on miner at intersection . stopped to remove rock . pulled rock approximately 4' x 3' x 18 '' thick when rock slide off of head and pinched finger on cable   hook .
the individual was dismounting the dragline when he slipped on the handrail and bent his finger back . when he was injured the doctor tried to keep his finger immobile so surgery would not be required   , however it did not get better so on a scheduled day off he had surgery on the finger .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 4 entry , between number 8 and number 9 cross-cuts . this was located along the 5th south travelway . the roof fall was 30' long , 18.5' wide and 5' high . the fall will be cleaned up and the area will be re-supported . initially the area was bolted with 4 ' fully grouted roof bolts and showed no indication of roof failure . the roof material consisted of sandy ,
employee was putting transmission mounts in on a coal hauler . a hydraulic line was not tied off or drained . hydraulic oil poured out on to him and when he pushed the hose away , he hit his elbow on a transmission mount . employee did not seek medical attention until 2-26-02 , at which time the doctor restricted employee's work . employee was diagnosed with bursitis. this is a workers compensation . claim .
employee stated as he was exiting the 463 bob cat , he felt a pain in his thoracic area of his back . he stated that he took some advil to relieve the pain , but after 2 hrs he states that it is feeling worse . he also stated that when he was moving scrap vessel chain around yesterday ( 10/30/08 ) , he may have aggravated his back .
while he was fabricating a curved steel shaft water ring and moving it around , the steel shifted and pulled his left arm down , twisting it .
on 24 august 2009 employee was walking across parking lot , stepped on a rock and twisted his knee . his doctor scheduled arthroscopic surgery for 24 september , and returned him to full duty . he received arthroscopic surgery on 24 september where small pieces of cartilage were removed . he returned to duty on his next scheduled work day .
after returning from break , the 3 employees proceeded to climb back up the structure . the employees had on all required safety equipment . once the employees reached about the 15 foot level , the complete rebar structure failed and fell over onto the north side . job site was scheduled to shut down on 12/22/11 for christmas break and reopened on 01/03/12 .
employee pushed stone slab onto loader forks and thought it was stable . after employee turned to look back at the saw , employee placed hand on the next slab and the previous slab ( on the loader forks ) came sliding off and crushed employee's pinky finger between the two slabs .
employee works at greens creek mine and was helping our mill maintenance replace the shafts and paddles in our nikko mixer when he was moving a paddle and shaft into position when he felt a pain in his lower back and left leg .
mine examiner was making an examination of the byrd mains left return and observed an unplanned roof fall at an intersection 1 cross cut inby survey station # 1346. travel or ventilation in this area has not been compromised .
while employee was driving haul truck into the pit area , he went over highwall in planned drilling area , causing truck to flip over . driver had a minor cut to his left leg , sustained when he unbuckle led seatbelt while hanging upside down in cab , and fell onto dash area .
a miner was taking a water pump off the boom of the jumbo . the cable used to suspend the pump had a sliver . when the miner was handling the cable to remove the pump , the sliver of cable inadvertently went through his glove which resulted in a puncture to his right thumb . this incident was not reported until ( 08/18/14 ) 10 days later ; resulted in an infection requiring prescription medication .
while climbing down from the r-85 euclid haul truck , victim stepped on uneven ground and severely sprained his ankle .
employee stepping down , left foot stayed in place and body did not pivot resulting in a sprain of the left knee . conservative first aid treatment until surgery for meniscus on 8/11/16 .
employee was shifting hanging spider line hoses in the pack house . employee was moving the hose from one connection point to the next , approximately 18 '' away . the employee lost grip while pulling the hose causing the hose to pinch left pinky finger . employee received 6 stitches
employee states that while breaking down a powershot tube to be recharge , she said that after she thought that the pressure had been bled off the tube , she proceeded to remove the end of the tube . because   the tube was still under pressure , the end flew off of the tube after it was unscrewed and struck her on the right of her ribs causing a contusion .
employee is an electrician and had cut a large piece of metal for a repair job and while lifting the cut piece , it slipped out of his hand striking him in chest .
employee worked normal shift as a clay feed attendant and went home . he noticed swelling around his right elbow . the doctor said his swelling is from bursitis from an old injury 4/25/00 .
a rock was stuck in the grid of our hopper . employee tried to break it with sledge hammer . did not work . he then tried pulling on rock to push off to one side . felt something snap in shoulder and forearm area .
employee picked up repair parts to carry to vendor truck , stepped back against a supply cart and lost balance falling against a portable stairway structure . pinched right little finger between part and stair frame -- laceration required stitches .
after the employee finished grinding , when he lifted his faceshield up small particles of metal shavings fell off of face shield and in between his safety glasses with one of them getting in his right eye .
employee was taking roof off a portable plant when he slipped and fell . the fall caused a minor bruise and cut . the incident went unreported until the cut got infected . the employee was treated with antibiotic   for infection .
a rock fell from between bolts and scraped down injured's back . examined by emergency room and no treatment given . injured was unable to return to work next scheduled shift due to emergency room doctor's refusal to grant full release to return to work and injured being unable to see family physician ( who granted full release to return to work ) until 2 days later .
employee was riding in a deisel tractor . as the tractor trammed down the supply road , it hit some holes in the roadway . the employee's right hip started to hurt . he went to the chiropractor on 1/2/04 for an adjustment .
employee was in the process of constructing a rock box , when he was lifting a piece of metal , he felt pain in his right   shoulder .
reportable only - employee was helping move steel sheets to a pallet when employee caught the end of finger between a steel sheet causing fracture to tip of finger .
employee was burned on back of left hand from a grounded cable that flashed up near him .
employee was cleaning top lights on 785-c rock truck . he started back down ladder and lost footing . he fell to the ground injuring lower back .
employee entered the uniform locker area located in the employee break room . he dropped his dirty uniforms into the collection receptacle and as he turned to walk away , he tripped over a mounted floor bench . as he fell to the floor , he extended his arms to catch himself and fell onto his elbows . after the fall , the employee's left shoulder was in pain and he had limited mobility .
employee unloading 1200 lb bags of aluminum from trailer . it had tipped over in truck which made it hard to unload . employee used a pallet jack to move bags . the employee reported hurting shoulder , on way home was sent to clinic , then occupational doctor following day received full release . went back on 03/14/2016 mri and therapy scheduled . became lost time on 3/15/2016
employee was loosening a jam nut on a rotex arm when the jam nut unexpectedly broke free causing the employees hand to slam forward into the rotex arm .
employee lifted belt structure and strained upper back and neck . lost time began : 10/24/02 .
miner was operating left-hand drive on first shift . as he turned into an intersection to approach the muck pile he ran over a large piece of salt on the ground . the jolt of hitting the large chunk caused him to bounce out of his seat and contact the fire suppression monitor box located above his head . the monitoring box cut his scalp about 4 '' long and 1/4 '' deep . he received 10 stitches .
employee lifted stone and was placing it on pallet . when he twisted , he felt pain in his back ( back strain ) .
while the employee was descending a 16 ' aluminum ladder , the legs of the ladder slipped , causing the employee to wrap his arm around a ladder rung pinching his arm between the ladder and the wall the ladder was leaning against .
employee was shoveling rocks off of the crusher and appears to have sprained or strained his back .
while steam cleaning a radiator on a d-8 dozer the employee slipped on the wet track and fell onto the stabilizer bar . he thought he just bruised his ribs and continued to work until seeking treatment on 07/13/2009 . an x-ray revealed a small fracture to one of his ribs .
employee cut left knuckle on electric metabo saw while cutting notches on idler roller . employee received four stitches .
employee was under equipment installing wiring to a new transmission that was being installed . he turned and felt a twinge in his lower back
employee jammed his head into a scoop canopy while hauling block . he had run over a track rail when this occurred .
employee was riding in golf cart in early morning and did not see rope barrier . golf cart went through and under rope barrier causing it to cut and bruise left eye and cheek requiring 6 stitches .
while scaling a pillar with a manual scaling bar , employee barred down a piece of material onto his right   foot . he refused medical attention . until 10/19/04 .
lifting screens from squeeze screen , he strained his lower back . ( x-ray only , restrictions , anti-inflammatory muscle relaxant )
operator jumped off excavator truck instead of using hand rails to get down . employee sprained his right ankle .
when cleaning the first floor of the prep plant with a water hose she felt pain and numbness in both wrists . also after completing the task she had a hard time gripping with both hands . medical information from workers compensation . does not support employee's claim . the company does not believe it to be work related . under protest and ordered by mine safety and health administration the company is completing a report .
employee stated that he was in the process of putting the side doors back onto the dozer engine compartment . as he was setting the doors onto the push beam on the dozer , the doors folded together catching   his off little finger in the doors causing a laceration to his finger no lost time but reportable due to requiring sutures .
e-2 headgate at 59 and 59 08. roof fall above the anchorage which blocked the passage of men . it did not fall but id did sit down on the headgate .
employee was standing at an electrical switch panel waiting to fill the water truck he was assigned to operate . according to his statement , a snake came out of the bushes with its mouth opened and he thought it was going to bite him . he jumped back and fell on some gravels resulting in bruising to his left shoulder , ribs and lower back .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 7 entry on number 2 section near spad 731. the fall measured approximately 40 ft long by 20 ft wide by 5 ft high . no injuries resulted from this fall .
employee was climbing a ladder when working on a weight feeder and strained his back .
employee was in the process of splicing a miner cable . employee was cutting shielding off the cable when knife slipped off the cable striking employee on the right thigh . this action caused a laceration on leg that required four stitches to repair .
engine hood of 900 komatsu loader fell on employees head .
employee and a coworker were air arching on the main frame liner inside of the cone crusher . they had their backs to each other when the ultraviolet rays we think reflected off the inside of employee's welding hood and burned his eyes .
employee states he was positioning forks of mini trac when another employee picked up the end and caught his finger between the mast and the fork .
employee was walking to his work area , when a stone fell from roof striking him on the head and neck , fracturing 2 two vertebrae .
employee was recovering equipment doors and frames . he had knocked the blocks from around the sides and the capping material from the top . as he pushed the top frame over , a straight leg support for the header sprang or kicked up , striking the employee in the eye . received 3 stitches above the right eye .
employee was cleaning a truck windshield and he fell he turned his ankle when he landed . the laceration was at the concrete plant .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal main west belt line-entry number 3 at 4217 ' west . the fall was approximately   18 ' long , approximately   18 ' wide and approximately   8-10 ' thick . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 20q .
employee alleges an incident/injury on 3/31807 . there are no known witnesses . the company became knowledgeable on 7/26/07 , when he called and reported the incident . the company does not acknowledge this claim .
65 ' long x 20 ' wide x 10 ' high , fall in number 5 entry on number 1 section near spad no   8079 .
employee was rehanging a tail pulley guard . earlier in year repairs had been made to guard . the piece of screen flopped down , catching his thumb between the screen and framework .
employee cleaning out east end of number 5 cooling tower screw . he had the bar in chute material dropped down , hit end of the bar causing the end of the bar outside of the chute to slip out of his hands , striking him in the right cheek .
employee participated in annual hearing test on 1/22/13 . he reported on 1/31/13 that he has experienced ringing in his ears since the 1/22 hearing test . employee is being evaluated by a workers compensation medical professional .
employee was changing out metal blades on a belt scraper at the 26w belt drive transfer . the screwdriver he was using to pry loose the metal blades slipped and he lacerated his thumb on the metal   blades . he was not wearing gloves as trained to do . there was no impairment to mining operation or damage to equipment . injury didn't involve compliance , job skills , proficiency , etc .
was helping make splice when knife slipped and cut right   index finger
resealing a 240 volt battery when an arc from the battery strap grounded to the frame burning both hands , wearing personal protective equipment , individual was trained on job task .
employee was loading an oxygen bottle into a pickup in which the bed was wet from rain . his foot slipped , causing him to lose his balance . he twisted his back as the oxygen bottle fell .
employee was preparing to work on a shaker when he slipped and fell from it falling about 8 feet onto the concrete floor . the fall broke a bone in his elbow . surgery was required . healing time is unknown , but it will be several weeks .
employee was pulling pins from beams at the highwall miner . in the process , his right arm received a laceration from a metal burr on the beam . he was taken by ambulance to logan regional medical center where he received stitches .
a rock burst occurred in the 5500-31e stope at approximately   10:50 pm . the burst followed a planned de stress round shot with he normal stope round . the area affected was approximately   20 to 30 feet from the   face int he sill along both the hanging and foot walls .
inspector walked over to railroad spur to talk to kwt employee . after finishing the conversation , the inspector turned to walk away and fell before resuming the inspection . inspector fell on the left wrist causing the injury .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the intersection of the south west mains in the number 7 entry , number 25 cross-cut , 15+85 . the cause of the roof fall was laminated and unconsolidated shale above the anchorage point . the area had 6 ' fully grouted rebar roof bolts for roof support .
employee was stripping off a outer jacket on a piece of cable . while holding the cable in his left hand with the end of the cable pointing toward his torso , he was cutting away from his body while cutting the blade slipped out of the outer layer of insulation and punctured his left hand between thumb and pointer finger . sutures were required .
employee was carrying a box of heavy tools 80 lbs down a steep , rocky slope when his foot slipped causing him to fall and the toolbox fell on his hand .
inspecting iron ore tank , removed door of discharge chute . placed door back on brackets , then reached down to retrieve keeper bar . not aware door was not fully hooked on upper framework . door came loose and fell approximately 2 ft and struck right hand . second finger , one stitch ; third finger end bone broken , five stitches .
employee alleges he bent down to install a bottom belt roller and his left knee locked up .
employee was shoveling iron are into the inspection door at the top of the burn . he had a full shovel and twisted his body causing strain to his back .
employee was lifting a 100 pound bag of material off of a pallet , when he felt a pain in his left shoulder , which subsided and he finished his shift . three weeks after the initial injury , the employee did not have any pain , but his shoulder was popping . an mri revealed a tear of the rotator cuff in his left shoulder .
employee was walking and stepped on a rock and heard a pop in right knee . pain was minimal employee did not seek medical attention until 7/19/17 . employee treated as fa and released back to work with no restrictions or pain meds . employee went back to doctor on 8/24/17 and placed on modified duty . employee stated knee still pops and pain is still lingering .
employee alleges that while he was working in number 4 precipitator building , he stepped in hot cement dust burning both of his feet .
the injured was driving a 150 ton cat truck and hit a pothole in the road . this caused his back to hurt slightly the next am his back hurt more and hew was sent to doctor the injury became lost time on 3/16/00
employee was banding a boxcar with another coworker , using utility knife to cut fiber bands . injured stepped back into path of knife arc swing of coworker .
south 1 , 11 block 10 entry , 4-way intersection , spad 648. support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , 12 ft cable bolts , pans . 20 ft wide x 20 ft long x 8 ft high . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee was holding shuttle car cable up , to let scoop clean feeder . shuttle car operator started shuttle car pulling cable down into employee hurting back and right shoulder . employee worked 2- 05 , 2-06 , 2-07 went to doctor became lost time accident starting 2-10 .
removing gear box from concrete sand stacker when employee got hand caught between the gear box and adjacent handrail causing lacerations to three fingers and a fracture in first joint of index finger on left hand
ignition - occurred due to the connector insert breaking between the two drill steels used to drill an 8 ' deep hole for 8 ' long cable bolt . when the two drill steels were removed from hole methane being liberated ignited . ignition lasted approximately   10-15 seconds and was extinguished with one fire extinguisher .
while mine fire boss examiner was traveling the weekly intake travelway with mine safety and health administration inspector a roof fall was discovered in number 6 entry at 70 break across 5 north belt . fall measured approximately 4.5' high , 20' wide and 40' long . area is under 103 k order and was dangered off . ventilation and travel is not impeded .
employee was drilling hole for roof bolt he put bolt wrench to push steel damper in hole used his hand to steady wrench . glove got caught on wrench . breaking his arm .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 2 entry on the track of abandoned 001 section . the fall did not affect ventilation , miners nor equipment . the fall was approximately   30 feet long x 25 feet wide x 10 feet high . the fall will not be cleaned up and will be left .
employee stepped into scoop bucket -- operator pulled out -- causing me to slip and twist back .
employee was dismounting the d6m cat dozer when his foot slipped and went between the blade push arm assembly and the track adjustment housing . he fell backwards with his foot caught , causing injury .
employee was repairing front plant feeder in tunnel . the come-along failed and feeder dropped on right hand and bruised left thumb .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred on unit 4 in number 5 entry at 20+46 ' . the fall measured 60 ' long , 19 ' wide , 9 ' high . no one was injured , passage of men or ventilation was not affected . fall was   due to adverse roof conditions above 6 ' double lock bolt .
employee was welding cracks on a 8750 revolving frame in inclement weather , after the shift was over and he had left the mine site . an hour and half after the shift ended he reported to a shop supervisor that he had a foreign object in his ( left ) eye .
on 6/29/11 while closing caps on the kiln trunnion rolls employee felt back pain . on 7-19-11 working on the four hole wear plate at the roller mill , the pain in his lower back became worse . on 7/25/11 , physician states that employee has damage to his si joint , recommended restricted duty , physical therapy and medication .
the employee was helping make a belt splice at number 1 belt drive between the take-up and drive . he and other employee were hammering in splice nails . during the swing the hammer caught an over hanging metal fire suppression line . when the hammer caught the line he strained his left shoulder due to the abrupt stop of his swing . the area was confined and had limited space to make a splice .
as the 12cm 12 joy miner was cutting bottom in the number 4 entry on number 4 section , as ignition occurred that lasted between 1 - 2 minutes . the flame was extinguished and no one was injured and no property   damage was incurred .
employee received a laceration on employee right index finger when it was smashed while lifting a heavy object on the 9l plow head gate .
a roof fall was discovered at break 14 , 1-north , inby spad 205. the fall is approximately 20 ' x 20 ' 8 ' long . all approaches to fall is breakered off .
employee was walking and transitioned from a paved surface to an unpaved surface and stepped into a hole injuring lower leg .
employee fell and cut his hand on his palm just below left thumb . employee slipped and fell against a truck .
employee was riding on mantrip down intake airway , when a small particle of coal fell from top and got in his right eye . he went to medical center and was sent to doctor and was treated . washed eye out and checked 2 small scratches . released for work 10-9-01 .
the operator was inspecting a pneumatic bulk truck when he slipped and bruised his right ankle . no doctor visit required . he said he was ok and has done the same job until 6/27/2012 when he requested a doc visit because the ankle was still a little sore . when the incident occurred he was wearing proper personal protective equipment .
employee was reaching for a tool and felt a twinge in his back .
7 mains 2 , 4 entry , 33 block , 4-way , mobile mining unit 001 . 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 8 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall , clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site .
employee states that while removing a guard from the chain drive of d3-be1 elevator , he lifted the of the guard and his finger got caught on something causing a laceration to his lefty index finger . the employee was not wearing his gloves .
was replacing a guard on a crusher . a bracket slipped down and struck him on the face . reportable because of chipped tooth .
the crew was attempting to belt up and as they were pulling the lo-lo structure tight with the continuous miner , the pin in the lo-lo that the chain was fastened to broke and struck injured in   the chest above the right nipple .
a roof fall was found in the main north return , ( work out area ) . fall was approximately 80 ' long x 18 ' wide x 0 to 48 '' high .
employee was placing primers in bore holes when he became hot and dizzy and suffered weakness .
employee had been working with a heavy shovel in the truck bed when the stick part of the shovel came apart and resulted in his slipping and falling on his right hand .
employee was assigned to clean settler underflow pump number 2 impeller . the tool bit became stuck in the impeller vein and while pulling the chipper tool to remove the bit , the employee strained his elbow . this injury was treated as a first aid initially , and employee received conservative treatment for the strain . december 11th , the company doctor added restrictions to treatment calling for reclassification
employee got his finger caught between metal cable and sheave wheel on belt take up . cause of injury involved awareness and miner proficiency and two skills . accident didn't involve protective   devices or protective cutting ; it was not involving any defective equipment or mining system .
while working with a sling the sling slip and hit the employee on the nose
employee was attempting to mount an ingersol dml drill by using the cab side steps . while climbing the steps , his foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground landing on his feet . the impact caused pain in his lower back .
while walking along the longwall face and using the handrail , a rock fell from between the shields striking him on the left ring finger . resulting in amputation just below left ring finger , finger nail .
lifting 25 lb . boxes on a cart and elbow felt like it pulled out of the socket . post accident drug test results were negative .
employee reported that he had gotten dirt in right eye and tried to rinse eye out . on 4-21-00 he reported that his eye was not any better and wanted to see doctor diagnosed as welding flash ( ultraviolet keratitis ) employee does not recall looking at flash of welders outside of maintenance bldg .
employee was putting his sideboards on the trailer and the wind got at the sideboard and twisted his left wrist .
while restoring old mine works for advance mining , employee was lifting on a rail to remove a chain and pulled a back muscle .
employee was setting up a poly pipe in a fusing machine and one of the clamps struck his right hand during the process resulting in a contusion . he was restricted to `` no use of his right hand '' for two days .
tried to move a rock using his hands when another rock fell against his finger .
riding on mantrip going to the working section and the mantrip hit a bump in the road causing the employee to hit his head on the mine roof . this was not reported to management until 8-4-08 .
employee was shoveling out loader bucket and experienced pain in his right forearm and shoulder .
while walking around the cat tl943 telehandler with intentions to enter the operator's cab , employee slipped on ice causing a fall . the employees right ankle and foot twisted and landed underneath his body . this caused pain and soreness to employees right ankle area . employee was taken to local hospital for observation and diagnosed with a fracture to the right ankle .
employee pinched right thumb during the removal of a portion of an air slide - resulting in sutures and fracture to right thumb .
employee stated a roof bolt broke while being installed into the roof , causing roof bolt plate to come off . struck employee on his right lower chin , causing laceration requiring 16 stitches . started missing time 5/31/07- returned   6/4/07 .
employee and coworker placed piece of angle iron ( 4 x 4 x 3/8 '' x 20 ' long ) on a fab table . the piece of angle slid off the table and the employee strained his right arm trying to stop it . employee reported injury promptly   but was not interested in medical attention until 1-21-02 .
while running jitter bug machine , injured felt pain in left arm . * 5 lb limit with left hand splint given
employee and a coworker were installing a larger mandoor in a stopping . he was using a sledge hammer to make the opening larger . he worked the remainder of the year 2000 and went off work 1-5 -01 falling back to the 6-3-00 incident .
old south mains number 11 heading 7-8 block mobile mining unit 006 7 ft high by 15 ft wide by 100 ft long . type of support : 6 ft resin bolts , 6 '' by 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof supports   set around fall .
employee had just cut the bolts off holding a metal structure to the old starter building . employee pulled on the structure to free it when slag and rust flew into his face . pieces rolled down his face and lodged   into the corner of his eye .
employees were stripping concrete forms from an elevated platform . as individual was prying a form loose , a 2nd came loose and fell a couple feet , striking another employee in the back of his head - beneath the ratchet of his hard hat . employee was given first aid then taken to hospital for observation - bleeding had stopped . doctor decided to apply 2-3 staples .
employee was working on a pump when he struck his head on an overhead pipe . he lost his balance and fell , striking his left leg against a flange and his right elbow against a pipe . on 07/23/07 , employee was placed on severe restricted duty by his treating physician , no use of right arm . not able to perform his regular duties , employee was placed out of the plant . first longwall day will be 07/24/07 .
employee repairing dragline bucket using wire grinder when metal flake entered left eye .
while swinging snout on loadout the guard around sprocket caught on the chain drive , when it came loose , it slapped him on the side of face
employee claims that while attempting to open a primary refuse elevator drain with a metal rod he felt a pain in his back .
employee was making a splice in the section conveyor belt . while cutting the belt with utility knife , the knife slipped and cut employee's left pinky finger . required 5 stitches to close wound . employee returned to work on next scheduled shift , but a follow up visit with surgeon on 9/15/2015 revealed tendons were cut and required surgery to correct .
employee was standing on a catwalk removing the protective covering to the man basket when he lost his balance and fell approximately 6 feet to the ground . he landed on his right foot which resulted in a fracture of the ankle .
as employee was operating the tailgate drum of the shields , he was standing at shield number 97 when a small rock fell from between shields 96-97 and struck him in the right ear . 4 stitches were required .
employee reported he strained his back while climbing/ascending ladder into operator's cab of komatsu pc-650 excavator .
employee slipped off the hood at the front of the dozer , possible because of morning dew . his feet went out from under him and he thinks he hit everything he possible could on the way down . he ended up curled under the dozer . he got up before anyone got to him and crawled out from underneath the dozer .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee .
two employees were riding a new lowering frame in the production shaft for inspection purposes . at about 250 ft down , electrical power went off due to a problem with the public supplier . power was off until about 9:20 am .
employee was trying to pry cattle panels off of forks on pettibone . another employee lifted the basket and employee got his middle finger of right hand caught between basket and mining bar . employee was taken to company doctor and treated for lacerations/swelling .
stacking brattice block , felt sharp pain in lower back possible pulled muscle .
opening bayhouse sliding doors , twisted right knee .
a roof fall occurred in the 3 right 3 northeast belt and track entry . the fall measured 72 ' long ; 24'-25 ' wide , and 12'-18 ' high .
employee was walking down a stairway and employee slipped on the bottom stair tread which was bent resulting in back discomfort . the employee was evaluated by a physician on 11-6-13 and returned to work with restrictions .
employee was pulling a pan out from underneath rail car and felt strain in back . did not seek medical treatment until 2/3/10 . employee was given orders for physical therapy and placed on restricted duty .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at about 5:30 am in the intersection of the number 3 entry and into the right cross-cut at survey station no . 1311. the fall was approximately 4 ft high x 19 ft wide x 60 ft long .
employee was using torch to cut weld on truck bed . metal object hit employee on left foot . began losing time 10/25/00 .
employee states that employee was hammering on a tail bearing to remove and replace . as employee was hammering , a piece of metal broke off and flew under glasses and into   eye .
truck dumped in primary plant , returning to pit to be loaded . traveled to right side of haul road about 1/2 way down . went 75 yards to bottom of grade . jumped a stone pile at intersection to right   side turned into berm . cab layed at 45 degree angle on left side of cab . miner had lacerations on scalp from hitting cab interior and complained that both shoulders hurt . paramedics said he
roof fall ( 7000-1-009-03 ) : mw number 1 belt - between head and cross-cut # 1. dimensions : height: 5'-6 ' , width: 12 ' , length : 40 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale , laminations , and plant fossils were present . roof supports : 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was bolting in panel sb08 in room 3 left , he had just finished a row of bolts and was positioning the bolter for the first bolt of the next row when a slab fell out of the back and struck   him on the right forearm left shoulder and he said his lower back was sore .
employee was crawling into manlift , put one leg into lift while pushing to get in twisted his knee .
on 4/21 , while performing welding tasks under a drill in windy conditions , debris got into employees right eye . employee reported discomfort on 4/22 and was seen by a doctor , but no debris was found . on 4/24 , employee reported continued discomfort . employee was taken to the emergency room again . a small piece of metal was found on the corneal limbus . metal was removed .
employee was standing waiting for water truck to fill . he stated that he turned to walk back to get in the truck , rotating on his left leg when he heard the knee pop . he reported the injury to his foreman shortly after and continued to operate the truck until taken to receive medical care . incident resulted in an mine safety and health administration reportable injury .
employee was removing a rock from the feeder . when he picked the rock up it flipped over and caught his hand causing the injury .
vice grip pliers was holding piece of flat plate steel temporarily . employee was leaning on the piece of steel when he removed the vice grip pliers , causing employee to lose his balance and fall .
employee stepped on a miner bit which caused him to twist his left knee , went to medexpress at lewisburg and was diagnosed with an internal derangement of knee , will be sent to a specialist and have an mri .
employee stated he was assisting coworkers in setting timbers . when helping to lift one of the timbers , he experienced pain in the right side of the abdomen . he underwent hernia surgery in march 20 00 and returned to work january 15 , 2001. the employee has a history of abdominal pain when exerting himself according to records . therefore , the experience with abdomen pain is not the result of a
when employee was stepping down from a left-hand drive right foot got hung up in the step causing employee to step down awkwardly onto left leg . employee felt something pop in the calf of left leg .
employee was operating the continuous miner when draw rock fell out between the bolts striking his left shoulder and hand .
the employee was using a ratchet to pull in a conveyor chain on a shuttle car . the chain fouled , so the employee attempted to release the chain ratchet . when employee reversed the ratchet , the handle turned loose and the employee suddenly stepped back twisting ankle . employee has been allowed to work light duty .
the employee was working on a vent bag when the piece of rope he was using gave way and he lost his balance and fell backward . he put his foot out to catch himself and tripped on a vent bag that was rolled up behind him . he struck the back of his head on a metal box . he was transported to emergency room . for evaluation and treatment .
he was helping another employee move a headgate drive cover when the other employee's hand slipped dropping the cover onto the injured employee's right middle and ring fingers causing fractures to both fingers .
during the course of sandblasting concave liners employee was accidentally hit the some sandblasting material when the man using the sandblaster stumbled and directed the spray towards his right arm .
employee was polishing a rock . he advised me that the rock spun out of his hand , mashing his right ring finger and pinkie . when asked why this wasn't reported immediately , he advised me he didn't think it was all that serious and that i had left early on friday . i had him fill out an accident report and sent him to the hospital .
mantrip was struck in belt entry near feeder . as coal hauler approached feeder to discharge load of coal , hauler operator did not see mantrip . tailgate of hauler made contact with mantrip causing injury to right foot/toes when they were caught between two pieces of equipment . injured was a passenger in mantrip .
employee at barmac crusher attempting to loosen screws . wrench slipped hurting left arm . employee has not missed work . today advised arm still hurts and has appointment with doctor today at 3:45 pm .
while hanging belt chairs using a 6 ' step ladder employee fell from about 3 steps up ladder when ladder started to turn over from being set on loose material .
employee states he was installing rib bolt in last roof bolts in face of number 5 entry . a section of rib ( rock and coal ) measuring 65 '' long, 13 '' wide and roughly 7 '' thick rolled and struck him on left upper   leg . the impact caused a bruise to the upper left leg
employee was pulling a piece of drawrock and cut his right palm ; the laceration required sutures .
injured was using a wash down hose to clean on and around the 3 east number 4 belt drive . after employee's work was completed employee was going to cut the wash down hose off . the injured slipped/fell while cutting the handle off on the hose . employee then inadvertently pressurized the hose . the hose came loose from employee's hands and struck employee in the left side of employee's forehead near hairline . caused cut .
employee alleges that he strained his back loading roof bolts from a scoop to the bolter . note : this accident is under protest and this report is for compliance reasons only . this was employee's last   shift .
employee was changing a water temperature   sensor on a 190 ton haultruck did not drain cooleant to an acceptable level and burned two fingers on right hand removing sensor .
employee was putting bottle on rack and slipped in ice landing on right hip
employee was operating d-11 dozer in an area with some large boulders . he got on top of one of the boulders and it shifted and moved . the bulldozer slid about 6 ft to one side and when it stopped , it jerked employee to the side straining a muscle in his neck .
employee alleges he hurt his back shoveling belt .
stepped on pallet top sheet which was slick and caused employee to fall . when employee fell employee tried to catch self , employee bent thumb backwards as employee fell .
employee who had been working in the shop the previous day , noticed pain in one eye that night . employee went to the clinic the next morning where a doctor removed a small particle ( unknown substance ) from left eye . employee had been wearing safety glasses while working in the shop .
3rd shift fireboss was doing pre-shift for sunday night when fall was found in belt entry number 3 entry across from spad number 1451 fall was 4 ' to 6 ' thick , 30-40' long fall was outby the section .
cutting piece of belt hanging from conveyor belt and cut left hand .
a roof fall was discovered in the 4wa panel number 2 entry between cross-cut-7 and 8 and spad # 4+48 and 5+12 in the number 9 seam . the approximate size of the fall is length - 15 ft , width - 18 ft and height - 6 ft .
empoyee's left boot became stuck in the mud in 12 inches as he attempted to free himself he felt pain in his left knee and hip . lost time began 7/23/2009 .
employee was using an airlance that is reinforced by rebar on both sides of lance . he was using this lance to poke holes in the dirt buildup on boiler . as he was performing this task he felt a popping   in his back . midsection . the area he was working on was a little lower than his knees .
replacing a water flushing head on longhole drill and dropped head on right index finger . fractured tip of finger , medical treatment .
2/26 a ground fall occurred at 23e 300 a3e . 5 ' bolts of ground support system came out in the fall , 8 ' bolts of support system were still intact . a rehabilitation plan was developed of 12 ' bolts and shotcrete . rehabilitation was started , ground started unraveling , releasing the 8 ' bolts , 12 ' bolts held . 2/27 management inspected area and called to hotline even though conditions didn't meet criteria .
employee was roofbolting in the number 3 right cross-cut . employee was pushing up a roof bolt when the bolt wrench broke . the bolt wrench hit the employee on the left side of his face cutting a place about 1 '' inch long in his upper lip . ( required 4 stitches ) .
employee was placing 20 lb . wooden blocks next to the railroad tracks in an awkward position with his hands extended out in front of him to re-rail the front trucks of the locomotive . he overextended and when he stood up felt pain in his abdomen . the employee is on restricted work duty .
employee was hanging miner cable and felt a sharp pain in the groin area
employee was operating the lube/fuel truck , and in the process of servicing a komatsu 475 dozer . he was on the cab deck level and attempting to dismount to turn on a pump when he slipped from the deck   or track area , and fell to the ground . the fall caused a lateral tibial plateau fracture to the right leg .
employee was stepping down into drag cable box , missed second step and fell , landing on right   ankle .
employee was crossing the coupling of 2 coupled rail cars , his hardhat came off his head and he hit his head on a step on the rail car that was there to access the hand wheel brake .
employee stated that he was loading the miner with roof bolts and plates . while his coworker was throwing him the bundles of plates one of the bundles struck his left ring finger .
the employee was placing a belt scale in the conveyor with another employee . while lifting a metal roller it turned over pinching his right ring finger causing an open wound .
employee stepped off of the ladders of a front-end loader and felt pain in right hip similar to a cramp . pain did not subside as a cramp would . extreme pain after shift was reported to supervisor and medical attention was approved . no problems were observed with the ladder , seat or loader .
employee states he was removing universal off impact wrench . he held universal in palm of hand since it was stuck on . he pressed trigger and universal turned and cut through glove , causing laceration to palm of hand .
a roof fall was discovered on 8/30/02 at the 17th cross-cut on the submain number 1 belt . the fall was 6 to 10 feet thick , 20 feet wide and 20 feet long . the area had been supported with 5 foot glue bolts   and 8 foot cable bolts .
the mine encountered an unintentional roof fall on 1 wa , cross-cut number 29 , between entries number 4 and 5. the fall measured 20' long x 18' wide x 4 ' thick . the area was developed 3/1997 , supported with 4 ' glue bolts with straps . this fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was operating a komatsu wheel loader when cab began to fill with smoke . employee dismounted and noticed a fire had started in back of loader. he immediately called the fire department , which responded and put out the fire . no one was injured and no property damage , other than to loader . cause appears to be electrical in nature .
employee was installing some hoses on the mast of a drill , when they got stuck employee pried on the hoses with a small pry bar to move them and felt pain in employee's right shoulder .
fall of roof in inactive area of mine . 18' x 18' x 30 '' at spad 1rt956 . no one injured . rerouted alternate lifeline . dangered off , timbered off all approaches .
smoke was reported in the developed underground space at 3:21am . the fire department responded but was unable to locate the source , although it was thought to be in the developed underground area . no miners were working underground . mine management and buckley powder discovered the burned truck at approximately 8:30am and mine safety and health administration was notified at 8:36am .
operating water truck ; complained of numbness in right wrist and hand getting progressively worse .
while drilling a hole for a roof bolt , the drill steel hit employee in mouth . this cut his lip and chipped his teeth . stitches fixed his lip and a dentist took care of his teeth . missed one day of work . back to full duty with no problems .
employee was attempting to replace brushes in a motor as he was removing the safety cover the cover or bolt pinched his finger against the motor .
employee said that after going through a mandoor he struck his head against another block wall . cause of injury was awareness and not creating height on the old wall . compliance with rules/regulations not a factor   , protective equip not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
repetitive cumulative trauma . right shoulder from daily checking blast hole depths , by bobbing a 100 ' weighted tape up and down in the blast hole . caused shoulder soreness .
employee was checking his battery , and as he was reaching to close the compartment door , the battery exploded .
victim was removing high voltage disconnects when he came in contact with high voltage power line . he was transported to logan medical center , air lifted to cabell huntington hospital . left arm amputated below shoulder and right leg amputated above knee . not chargeable per logan west virginia field office . mine was abandoned 7/25/05 .
pulling cables from dock with a forklift . tie off rope snagged and came loose . cables came forward abruptly and rope tripped worker and he fell . went to doctor to get checked out - no injury found   .
employee was picking up wheel chokes when he slipped . he reached out with his left arm and caused a stress fracture to his left shoulder .
employee was lifting a box of resin glue off roof bolter and felt pain in lower back .
employee was walking along side a mantrip parked in the track switch leading into the underground motor barn . he stepped in a hole and fell against the mantrip .
two employees were replacing the end plate of w-13 conveyor discharge chute by lifting it into place . while putting plate into place , they lost control of the plate and it fell striking injured on the right index finger causing laceration . ( plate wears approximately 150 lbs . )
lift cylinder on 773b rock truck fell approximately 1 foot and pinned left hand to tire .
escape hoist in zone 2 was missing the tube block . so they downed the escape hoist at 4:00 pm and brought it back up at 5:00 pm that same night . no miners trapped or injured .
hoisting incident : cowling portal elevator - on monday , 03/30/2007 at 08:55 am , the cowling portal elevator was taken out of service to shorten the length of the hoist rope . the elevator was back in service on monday , 03/30/2007 @ 01:30 pm . each underground employee was informed to use secondary escapeways . a hoistman was stationed at the hoist house for the entire shift .
employee stated that as he dismounted the mantrip he twisted his left knee .
a roof fall was discovered in the number   5 intake entry near spad location 1685. the fall measured approximately 30 ' long x 20 ' wide and 5 ' thick . no injuries or damage to equipment resulted from this occurrence .
employee stated he was in the process of hanging the nylon miner cable strap to the hook provided on the joy 12cm27 mining machine . he stated they were preparing to move the miner out of the number 2 room   to a new location . when pulling on the strap that was attached to the miner cable he felt lower back pain . he was transported by ambulance to the emergency room . note : medical received 1/24/00 .
employee states he was working on center main engine exhaust , wrench slipped and struck employee in face .
employee was taking off the 4 '' inspection cap of the hopper , lost control of the cap which fell onto the belt catching his hand between the hopper feeder and the belt .
during a routine inspection the governor for the number 6 elevator was found to be defective . the elevator was down from 12:55 pm to replace the governor .
while unloading roughbacks from the narrow belt saw , employee slipped in the slurry from the sawing of the stone , twisting his back , he was sent to the dunn walk i clinic about 10am and was off the rest of the day per doug king , supervisor
the offside roof bolter operator on 3 section in number 2 entry was struck in the back of the right leg by a piece of rock while roof bolting . the operator was transported to raleigh general hospital where x-rays showed a broken fibula , broken pinky toe , and cracked ankle . operators return to work is unknown at this time . operator worked for lightning contracting services mine safety and health administration id - 8cv .
employee was in the process of installing a new 1 1/2 '' rock dust hose on the roofbolter . he stated his foot got tangled in the hose and as he turned he twisted his ankle .
injured was working on feeder pried down on slate bar and slate bar slipped catching left pinkie finger between feeder flygt and slate bar causing a contusion .
employee was lining up a wear plate on a conveyor chute . as employee went to set it down , employee pinched right middle finger between the wear plate and inner lip of the chute . the employee sought treatment and was diagnosed with a fracture as well as a laceration in which employee received stitches .
employee was in the process of spotting a roof bolt with a fletcher bolter when he turned to see the location of the bolt and position the bolter . he then proceeded to the front of the bolter and ran into the atrs striking his eye .
employee was putting up rib bolt ; suction hose got damaged ; took off glove reached down with his left hand to fix hose and a piece of metal poked through top of left thumb .
employee was operating a scoop when a piece of water line struck employee on the left side of the head . the water line was lying by the coal rib when the scoop struck it
employee shut down the generator for the end of the shift . as he walked out of the generator trailer , he stepped on to the platform at the top of the stairs . the platform was covered with about 1 '' of snow . as employee stepped on the solid metal section of the platform , his feet went out from under him and he fell down , struck his arm when he landed and then he slid down the stairs .
while walking to a work station the employee stepped on uneven ground and tunnel his left ankle . this was reoccurrence of a neutral from 1999 .
employee was helping a second employee lift a filter press leave into a box when he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . the employee was treated at a local clinic and returned to work with restrictions   .
the employee was guiding a bell housing down off the metcalf secondary crusher overhead crane when a clevis pin fell 45 ft , hitting the employee on the right hand pinky finger .
employee was driving a 190 ton end dump . he was on the fill dumping his load . he said that the truck bed slammed back and jerking his neck . he was dizzy , vision was blurred , and light headed .
the employee was in the process of climbing upon the d9 cat and as he lifted his leg up he felt his knee pop .
employee was hauling mega-blocks to the section with a scoop . he had exited the scoop and was walking back to check for clearance when he stepped on uneven ground and in mud and twisted his left ankle . this injury did not involve any aspect of compliance with rules or regulations , job skills or attitude . amendment : returned to doctor 2/20/06 - has recurring pain . back on restricted duty .
after installing the suction nipple on the new suction plate to the pump , employee bent over with impact wrench to tighten bolts an experienced pain in his lower back . employee reported incident on 11/26 /01 .
employee was carrying a 5 gallon oil can up number 1 entry to the f25 longwall face through a water hole measuring 30' long x 5' wide x 4 '' deep when stepped on a rock twisting left knee . lost time accident on 7/8/16 .
while on a platform approximately   12-15 ' high with handrails all around , employee was burning duct work . when duct was cut loose the platform fell in and employee went with it .
while standing on the second step of a 6 ft step ladder , the employee fell backwards and sprained his left wrist while trying to catch himself . the employee did not hit the ground .
employee was standing on front platform helping a mechanic bolt a light bracket on the lift cylinder of a d11 bulldozer after they had replaced hydraulic   hoses . the employee lost balance and handhold causing employee to fall . employee received a cut on the head that required stitches .
a roof fall occurred in the main entries west , cross-cut 7 , number 1 entry , long 20 ' x wide 20 ' x thick 10 ' . the roof was bolted with 6 ' point anchor pins .
employee was washing around the   c   belt braking resistors . he stated that he tripped on a wash down hose and his arm slid under the resistor and came in contact with power , receiving electrical burns to his left hand .
a hole blew out during a blast , a small rock ricocheted from the ground or a nearby trailer and struck employee on the head . first aid was administered at the mine site . that night he went to a doctor for a tetanus shot and the doctor closed the laceration with a butterfly closure .
employee had surgery for carpal tunnel syndrome on may 31 , 2000 .
employee was working on 777 haul truck . he was going under to check on a broken cooling line . he stepped on the steamer line that another employee was using at the time . the line rolled causing him to twist   his knee . the result was a medial meniscal tear . first day missed was 07-11-2002. not reportable until then .
employee was operating a forklift on the surface , employee went to adjust the left fork and it came completely off hitting top of employee's right foot . employee was seen by emergency room and released to company doctor after x-rays it was revealed a possible fracture/contusion , referred to ortho doctor employee released to sedentary work only .
employee was walking down 2nd floor steps and slipped and fell backward and hit his head on hand rail , hurting head and back .
sliding a 4' x 4' x 1/4 '' sheet of decking steel onto the forks of a forklift . sheets were frozen together . materials slipped out of his hands he lost footing , twisted back and felt pain in lower back   .
while changing ear muffs the broken wire cut across the left index finger , eight stitches were required .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the intake airway , number 6 entry , at spad # 5107. the fall measured 12 ' long , 18 ' wide , and 5 ' high . dangered off and rerouted intake escapeway .
employee stepped out of cab of vehicle and his foot slipped out from under him causing employee to fall backwards onto the flatbed of the truck jamming his left shoulder . the employee did not report this incident   to employer until 1/5/04 and has not missed any days from work or had restricted duty . employer made aware on 2/3/04 that employee is seeing a chiropractor , making this reportable . chiropractor is 1st medical
employee was machining on a lathe when a metal string wrapped around the part . as lathe came to a stop , employee reached with a pair of pliers to cut the string , but the string cut the employee . employee received 3 sutures and 3 days restrictions .
employee was working on conveyor and had to lift the tail wheel onto welding truck . he had another helping him lift the approx . 100 lb tail drum . while lifting he felt something give in his lower back . diagnosed with a lower back strain .
a roof fall occurred in the 9th east , number 3 entry , at number 23 cross-cut . the fall was 20 ' long . 25 ' wide and 8 ' high . it didn't affect ventilation , traveler cause damage to equipment or injuries . the area   was bolted with 8 ' point anchor bolts . the reason for delay in reporting was that the examiner was supposed to be walking number 1 entry and just found out he was walking number 3 .
while an employee was using a hammer and chisel to break chain apart another employee was observing . a small sliver of metal hit that employee in left wrist .
employee stated that while removing a top roller and structure from the longwall belt he felt pain in his left elbow . employee continued to work and did not begin to miss work until 9/18/2015 when he was diagnosed with a sprain/strain type injury to his elbow .
employee was tightening chain ratchet when hook came loose and struck the left side of his face requiring stitches .
laborer was assigned to operate a skid steer loader located near the mine service building . entry into the operator's cab is via the bucket . she slipped on snow/ice in the bucket and twisted her   left knee . she began losing time on 8-30-00 for surgical repair .
roof fall occurred 1 cross-cut inby surveyor station number 9191 roof was support with 42 '' resin bolts , fall measured 13 ' wide 10 ' thick , 30 ' long .
employee was attempting to install a bent roof bolt into the roof while holding onto it . the bolt spun around hitting his wrist as he accidentally pushed on the rotation . cause of this injury was an unsafe act . rules/regulations   was a factor , protective equip . not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/system a factor .
another tech and myself started to disassemble the accumulator and failed to bleed off the nitrogen before starting disassembly . i was holding the ratchet on the end cap while employee ran the ratchet . when the end cap came to the end of its threads the pressure that was still in the accumulator blew the end cap into my hand .
employee was taking up cable on bolter and didn't cut reel off fast enough . the cable struck employee on the right   arm , pulling shoulder up , popping shoulder .
employee stepped off of a material supply trailer that is 16 '' high and stepped on a lump of coal resulting in a twisted ankle .
employee was dismounting komatsu haul truck in wet muddy conditions when foot slipped off access ladder . as a result a fall ensued , and the right arm was lacerated on the toe plate of access platform . injury required sutures to close the wound .
employee was pushing wheelbarrow through mud and it tipped over . employee went to brace themselves and landed on their right thumb . fractured right thumb . employee released to restricted duty which the site could accommodate .
employee was pulling a rock out of tailpiece and strained his lower stomach area .
employee was preparing to service a miner when rock fell from the roof and struck him on the head and right side of his back . lost time injury .
employee was riding in a track mounted mantrip when the operator stopped suddenly . when the mantrip stopped , it was struck by a locomotive . this resulted in the injured having pain in his back and neck .
bent over to pick up mop pail . lifting bucket felt `` pop '' in low back . pain felt in left leg downto heel . doctor visit 9/5/01 physical therapy prescribed .
employee was cleaning take off duct . it was full of build up so it blew out and covered him on his gloves and coat . the material got in his glove and burned his right hand .
employee was marking spacing for drill holes when he removed his hard hat to adjust his earmuffs . a rock then fell from the highwall and struck his head .
employee states that he was moving rocks in preparation to bolt a cut when he felt a pain in his right groin . he worked his regular job until the scheduled miner's vacation ( june 29 to july 5 ) . employee was disabled by doctor bucci effective 7/6/09 for a right inguinal hernia .
employee bent over to pick up 50 lb bag and experienced discomfort in lower back . went to see outside medical provider and was given multiple doses of prescription medication .
a steel plate tipped over and pinched the employee's   4th finger between the plate and the concrete floor as he was working on the plate . the resulting avulsion required sutures .
while lifting a rock off of bull shaker . employee strained his left shoulder .
employee was changing a roller on a conveyor . he was having trouble getting a nut off of a bolt which held the roller . when the nut cam loose , the roller came loose and employee tried to hold it from falling .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee on 1/27/2015 . he was termed on 9/21/2012 due to reduction in force .
employee was checking oil on the end dump while standing on the platform . once finished , the employee stepped backwards unaware of employee's placement , causing employee to fall 4 ft backwards from the end dump .
roof bolter was installing the inside pin in the number 10 entry on the number 1 unit ( mobile mining unit 002 ) . a piece of draw rock measuring 2.75 ' x 2.75 ' x 2 '' thick fell from between the rib pin and the rib making contact with the roof bolter's left foot bottom . he received a contusion and sprain as a result .
two employees were cleaning and oiling bearing housing with bearing inside from vibrating screen . bearing housing was set up on its side and oil caused bearing housing to slip and fall over . bearing housing caught end of thumb on right hand of employee , crushed/cut end of thumb on right hand .
employee was using an impact wrench to remove a rusted bolt when it jerked causing him to smash his finger .
employee was using a pry bar to remove large rock from ( 9fa01 ) pan feeder to crusher . the rock shifted striking the pry bar he was using , smashing his left thumb against the side of ( 9fa01 ) pan feed emergency room .
roof fall in the number 3 entry , cross-cut number 13 , 13th right section . roof fall was in the intersection , dimensions were approximately 42 x 27 x 17 feet high . mine safety and health administration hotline was called .
employee stated he was operating battery scoop hauling mud-muck and loose rock that had been piled up in cross-cut between supply road and belt entries . while backing the scoop a large piece of rock came in operators compartment struck the employee on his left shoulder causing contusion . employee started missing work on 5/27/11 .
employee states he was trying to drive out cut off bolts using ball ping hammer . does not know what caused injury but looked down and noticed blood on left lower arm . applied pressure and was brought to first aid . sent to new bern family practice . x-ray revealed foreign body in left forearm . employee was given prescription medication and 2 days restricted duty .
employee stated that at the end of the shift he staged the shuttle car up at the feeder and dismounted to walk to the mantrip . as he bent forward to walk , he felt pain in his back . this resulted in sprain .
the injured was using a bench press grinder to remove burrs from a 3 '' washer . the grinding wheel snagged the washer and pinched his right   thumb against the grinder rest .
employee was walking toward transportation and twisted right ankle resulting in a sprain
the employee was operating the shearer in the longwall section . he was checking the cutting level of the drum when the face blew out and a piece of coal struck his bottom lip . he received 4 stitch es to close the laceration . returned to work his next scheduled shift on 1-28-02 .
employee stated that he picked the blower cable up with his left hand . when he did this he felt pain in his left arm . ( employee didn't start missing work until 3/17/06 . )
pittsburg breaks and clay vein
the injured employee was assisting making repairs to the a-1 jig elevator . after the shear pin was replaced , the workers stood in the clear ( 12 ' away ) . as the unit was jogged a piece hub broke off striking   him on the forehead .
burned skin left foot employee was pressure washing by an engine compartment when he sprayed his left foot puncturing through his steel toed boot
the hoist was shut down to replace a defective hoist brake valve . the mine evacuation started at 10:30 am and was complete at 10:40 pm . the valve was replaced , the hoist tested and miners returned   underground at 11:05 pm .
employee was marking the face in the underground mine . loose rock 2-3 ' up on the rib fell on his foot .
employee stated that he was carrying pin boards to the scoop when he stepped in a uneven place in the mine floor and fell on his knee . he continued to work for a couple hours and asked to be taken to medical   services . he then was taken off by his family doctor .
one of our euclids had an exhaust leak and employee became ill after awhile . he claimed that the leak was present a couple of months ago and we made some adjustments . evidently that didn't eliminate the problem . light exposure evident to exhaust fumes .
employee experienced pain in lower back when employee was bending to remove a piece a metal from the mine floor . the operator received the results of an mri on 8/10/16 which noted ( 1 ) degenerative changed noted above at l3-l4 and l4-l5 . ( 2 ) degenerative facet disease .
employee was working in burner building area , removing welding leads . employee stepped back to turn , stepping down off ramp . he misjudged the edge and fell .
employee shoveling walkway of belt 12 conveyor . glasses got fogged due to humidity . employee laid glasses on belt tray . glove got close to pinch point of idler and belt . pulled employee's right arm in pinch point   . belt was moving slow , employee pulled stop cord to stop belt and pulled out arm .
employee was changing bits on the miner on mobile mining unit 001. a piece of metal chipped off and struck him in the left eye .
3 employee's were working on an elevated conveyor without fall protection . they were about 10.6 ' off the ground . employee lost his footing and fell over backwards . he landed on his head and right   wrist . employee was taken to the hospital by a compensation . truck . employee has a fractured neck and a broken right wrist .
driving too fast on a gravel road and slid into a ditch . five stitches above his right   ear .
employee was operating shuttle car headed to the continuous miner when rib ( 2 ' x 3 ' ) rolled off hitting him in right arm and shoulder . injury resulted in application of splint to immobilize the injured area . this report is being generated under protest to terminate citation number 9006070 .
employee was replacing the conveyor motor guard , when the guard fell catching his right hand between the guard and rub rail on the continuous miner , resulting in a fracture to his right ring finger .
employee has hearing loss under south dakota workman's compensation . employee laid off due to mine closure .
a roof fall was found dec 10 , 2004 at 11:30 pm at survey station 29 and 99 entry number 2 , main south . fall was in a four way intersection that had been mined june 6th 2004 and supported with 8 ' full resin bolts . fall measured 15 ' long and 15 ' wide and 8 ' high . no injury or property damage resulted . fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
employee was positioning a metal cable chocker to free a dozer that was stuck . there was a sharp burr or wires sticking out from the cable which penetrated his overalls causing the laceration . he received   3 sutures to close the wound and released to return to work .
a rock fell from the mine roof approximately 35 ' inby survey station no 13356 as the 6-left cross-cut was being mined on the 020-0 mobile mining unit , east section . the rock measured approximately 4'6 '' to 5 ' high x 15'6 '' long x 5'6 '' wide . 6 ' roof bolts were being used as primary roof support in the no 6 entry . this report is being submitted to prevent any additional citations .
west mains 63 block number 5 heading intersection . 7 ' high x 20 ' wide x 25 ' long . area bolted with 6 ' resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats on operator side . posts set on 3 sides , cribs built on belt   heading side . area dangered off .
employee was unable to nip directly into power source due to the entry of heading . this led employee to pulling power cable by hand approximately   150 ' down a 10 % grade . the employee was pulling enough cable out to complete task in thirds . while doing so the pulling , twisting , and walking resulted in muscle damage to lower back .
employee was drilling . he was holding the drill with his left hand and a board with his right . the bit broke and jumped over cutting his right forearm . no stitches -- received tetanus shot .
roof fall was approximately 1280 ft from face of number 004 section in number 4 entry at spad # 26336. fall was approximately 20 ' x 20' x 6 ' thick . fall was bolted with 5 ' fully grouted point anchor bolts . fall will not   be cleaned up .
employee was turning water valves inside of dozer and caught his right thumb on a pulley causing a laceration which required stitches .
employee was carrying a welding rod can and when lifted can slipped the open end of the can cut hand ( one end of can was open .
employee getting in position to cut belt , landed on a rock causing him to jerk knife back and away from belt , catching his left index finger . required nine stitches .
roof fall ( 7000-1-005-06 ) : location - old main break , number 7 entry , south of spad # 51614. dimensions - height: 6-7 ' , width: 19.5 ' , length : 35 ' . geology - soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in the roof . roof support - 6 ' instal bolts .
2 maintenance specialists were closing an inspection door on the firing hood of a rotary kiln . the door was difficult to close and the employee's had to bend over and lean against the door to get it to close . the employee strained his lower back while leaning against the door .
employee was stocking shelves in the warehouse and was lifting a box of parts when he felt a muscle pull in his stomach . later in the shift a knot appeared on stomach .
employee stated at ground elevator   of raw mill he picked up a tripod to put on shoulder , when it was on shoulder , chain from tripod hit employee on the upper lip , cutting it .
employee was removing rock out or chute on the longwall belt when a piece of rock struck his left hand . this resulted in a laceration to his middle finger of his left hand .
while the bus was moving employee stood up to move her lunch box , she had one hand on the partition behind the driver and holding a cup in the other hand . the driver of the bus was making a stop when the brakes grabbed causing employee to fall forward striking a mirror bracket .
employee picked up jack and felt something pull in his groin area .
approximately 30 minutes after cutting the number 3 right cross-cut through into the number 4 entry ( @ number 25 cross-cut at station spad 1 : +91 ) creating a three ( 3 ) way intersection , the intersection of number 4 entry fell in . the intersection was bolted with six ( 6 ) ft fully grouted roof bolts and less than 4 ft contours . no one was injured , no equipment was damaged .
roof fall was in the 3rd northwest butt room section in number 23 room 45 ' inby spad number 2082 the fall was approximately   55 ' long in number 23 room and fell through cross-cut . 30' long . towards number 24 room 18 ' wide. unknown height. area was bolted with 6 ' bolts and 8 ' cable with some 4 ' super twist outby fall area these were vertical joints and slips .
while lifting one end of water spray pump by the sand pipe , off the stud bolts another employee pried the other end off the stud bolts . the pump flipped over , and the stand pipe flange that i was lifting   with smashed my finger against the near by water reservoir tank .
during the pre-shift examination a roof fall was discovered 2 cross cuts outby the face between number 5 and number 6 heading . no persons , equipment , nor ventilation was affected . the fall was app . 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . the fall was just outby spad 232. the fall will not be cleaned up at this time .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the number 5 entry one break inby the mine portal . the fall was approximately 20 ft   wide x 7 ft   thick x 20 ft   long . the fall was reported immediately to mine safety and health administration and office of mine safety and licensing .
employee was loading a bundle of crib blocks onto a scoop bucket from flat car . employee put left hand at the bottom of the bundle with fingers under it in order to position it in the scoop bucket . the scoop operator rammed the ejector out smashing fingers .
employee reported while using an impact gun to tighten nuts he felt a pain in his left arm below the elbow
employee reports exiting cab of cable truck when experienced right knee pain . employee claims traction soles on protective footwear may have caught on step tread causing stress to knee while turning . after conservative treatment , follow up evaluation was performed where restrictions were ordered on 2-2-17 .
saddle fell from packer , employee was attempting to put it back into position . while his finger was under the saddle , he hit the operation lever , causing the saddle to move catching his finger between   the saddle and the support bracket .
7 mains 2 , 7 entry , 26 block , mobile mining unit 002 . 25 ft wide x 25 ft long x 8 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , 12 ft cable bolts . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers compensation division for occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee drives a truck at the slate dump . the jarring caused him to have an umbilical hernia . surgery was performed . outlook is good . will be off work for several weeks .
employee was carrying 50 lb bag of rock dust through a mandoor when he felt pain in his lower back . did not begin missing work until 3/5/02 .
employee was walking to back hoe from mantrip ( bus ) at the start of shift , when he stepped into a ditch , falling and hitting his left shoulder . he was taken to hospital . he was examined by doctor and restricted   from work for two days .
examiner found a roof fall in an inactive area of the mine . a fall approximately 20' long x 20' wide x 10 ' high was found in the number 3 entry at number 9 cross-cut of the 8 haulage elevator mains . the fall is 11,838 feet from the nearest working section . the area was mined in january of 2003. no ventilation or travelway was disturbed .
employee ran off road with excavator .
employee stopped his dozer to get it service . when he stepped off his right knee gave away . the next day he had trouble walking and went to doctor apparently strained .
employee was cleaning out hopper using a long rod through the top of hopper guard . material broke loose causing him to strike left hand on top of metal hopper guard .
employee retrieved pannevis filter cloth from storeroom . he removed the filter cloth ( 128 lbs 90 '' x 10 '' ) from storage rack , and carried it outside to truck . he stated that he felt pain in his lower back when he maneuvered filter cloth through door and upon putting it into the truck . employee did complete task of replacing filter cloth with assistance from 2nd operator .
employee was operating a skid loader with a modified bucket cleaning up around the plant . the extension on the bucket caught the ground and stopped the skid loader abruptly . the employee struck his head against the top of the cab causing a neck strain . employee went requested to see a doctor on 08/31/2006 . employee was directed to physical therapy on 09/25/2006 making the injury reportable .
injured was applying stonehand to the sangave 08 a pan when the wet product seeped through his clothes and on to his wrist causing irritation .
employee started to step off the tractor when he slipped on the rail and fell to the ground .
while operating the raymond forklift pinched his right little finger between the machine and a shelf causing a laceration that required sutures to close . he was treated and returned to unrestricted duty .
the employee was attempting to get out of a stalled manbus . the manbus was stuck by a motor . he reported his back began hurting because of the incident .
the employee was lifting a beam when employee claims to have felt pain in employee's left shoulder . the following were not a factor : rules , regulations , mining equipment or systems , skills , proficiency , training and protective devices on equipment or clothing . attitude may have been a factor .
a roof fall occurred in no number 3 intersection . four to eight ft high , 20 ft wide , 30 ft in length . it was cribbed off .
truck was being loaded by loader. the 2nd bucket had a rock in it , which jarred the employee and broke the windshield. the employee told his supervisor he felt fine and took the truck to the shop for windshield replacement. when he bent over to pick up the chock , he stated his lower back began to hurt. he was taken to the clinic and taken off work several days . ongoing .
on 8-21-13 employee struck a piece of coal causing the steering wheel to spin straining his shoulder . on 8-26 he was seen by a doctor and released for work . on 9-4 he was taken off work pending an mri . employee has previous neck and shoulder injuries and this case was under review by industrial to determine if it was a new or old injury . on 10-10 it was accepted as a new injury
standard threshold shift - left ear
employee was roofbolting on a satellite continuous miner when he got his hand caught between the satellite atrs light bracket and a bundle of bolt plates his hand was resting on . resulted in crushed right ring finger .
employee was cleaning i beams when wind came up and blew dust behind safety glasses .
he was coming off the ladder of payloader when he stepped on a 6x6 '' block , slipped off and hurt his left ankle .
the injured was installing 6' long resin bolts during normal bolting operation . due to the 5 ' seam height the bolts have to been for installation . when the injured was in the process of straightening   a bolt during installation he experienced pain in left shoulder . this is a reoccurrence to a previous injury dated 9-6-01. the injured returned to work on 12-19-01 complaining of pain .
employee hit right shin on metal frame . resulting injury was about size of a pea . applied antibiotic and a bandage on 1/24/10 while showering at home the scab fell off the next morning area was very red and painful to touch . on 1/25/10 , he reported to work but pain became too much . went to er , serious infection ( cellulitis ) had set in . antibiotics prescribed .
employee was unloading b bond from flat car and loading it on scoop . he reached up with right hand and his arm twisted . he heard a pop and felt a burning sensation .
employee was performing maintenance on a roof bolter . he removed the bottom pin from the atrs cylinder causing the bottom framing to fall on his left foot .
employee was riding in a diesel rubber tired mantrip . as the mantrip made a right hand turn the end of his right foot was momentarily caught between the rib and the canopy support post .
employee was in the man lift and was attempting to loop the welding lead over the kiln shell when the connector came loose striking the employee in the mouth . sought medical treatment and received a couple stitches .
employee was sliding 2 x 4's under a rock in preparation to insert forks . the rock broke and smashed his left hand between it and the 2 x 4's . left hand was swollen and bruised . employee was unable to move left hand .
employee was using a hammer to wedges in at a new tunnel being built . employee missed the wedge and struck left thumb , resulting in swelling and tenderness .
employee , an engineer with refract america , was assisting with the installation of a prototype kiln brick and a brick fell on his left pinky . he suffered a laceration that required 10 stitches and a cracked bone .
employee arrived at parking lot in personal vehicle reporting to work . he was walking from his vehicle to the bathhouse when he slipped and fell aggravating a previous existing lower back injury . ( was   continuing to take medicine ) . he continued to work and began missing work 3-14-2001 after doctor exam .
on april 19 , 01 doctor diagnosed carpal tunnel syndrome . employee stated doctor related the problem to repetitive trauma on the job .
while employee was re-entering the scoop , for balance , employee placed right hand /arm on the operator deck side board . employee's arm slipped , which caused employee to lose balance and strike mouth against the machine's bell resulting in a chipped tooth
while using hand held grinder in a confined area employee struck on right pointer finger with rotating wheel causing cut/abrasion to right finger . started showing signs of infection . he went to doctor 9-23-04 and received antibiotics .
he was installing a cutting edge on the jd loader # 4. the bucket was 18 '' high from the ground when the cutting edge fell on him . he did not report the accident until 1300 because his right foot was hurting him .
a group of miners was changing the conveyor belt on number 4 belt line . a miner was injured when employee was struck on the left forearm by a belt grab . the belt grab broke left ulna bone .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee . employee was termed on 12/14/15 .
employee was trying to free a stuck drill steel using a pipe wrench and was struck on jaw .
17' wide x 20' long x 10' high . support : 6'3/4 '' resin bolts , wire screen , 12' cable bolts . south west 2 , number 7 heading , number 5 block , spad # 6836. fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
roof fall found 10-23-03 number 9 entry 2 breaks inby spad # 5265. the fall measured 20 ft long , 20 ft wide and 6 ft thick .
while walking from drill platform to core samples , turned and felt pain in small of back . note : employee works four on four off , first missed shift 5-8-03 .
contractor was carrying pipe when employee's legs gave out . employee fell to knees and strained back . the pipe hit shoulder . lost time as 11/03/2016 . employee was a contractor working for david stanley consultants ( contractor id ybv )
no accident has occurred . employee says knee started hurting from crawling and being on knees while bolting . started swelling on this date .
employee strained his back while helping hang 4 '' water line which had fallen onto the track . employee was treated at raleigh general hospital .
while trying to spread the sides of a 30 ' x 60 '' grizzly feeder with a hydraulic jack and pipe spreader , the jack and pipe sprung out towards employee striking him on the left jaw .
while employee was putting up the rails for the snake after a belt move he stepped in a hole and twisted his right knee . on 4/8/04 the employee was still experiencing pain . he was taken to seek medical attention , and was put on restricted duty until he receives a mri .
employee was loading a face with anfo and the pressure built up in the hose due to anfo not flowing properly . the hose came out of the hole and struck employee on the face causing a fracture to the nose
employee was climbing down from end dump number 1193 a 190 ton truck about 8 ft from the ground . he slipped or lost his grip on the hand rail and fell to the ground .
fish creek portal bottom , man was beside swimming pool used for discharged mine water . he had just finished installing bleeder valve on 4 '' discharge line . the 4 '' plastic pipe broke approximately   25 feet away . the 4 '' line shifted and struck his hand against pool wall .
employee was lifting a lid on a tanker truck when he felt a pull in his back . he did not report the incident as work related to the co until april 10 , 2002 .
haul truck driver was traveling up the exhaust to the grizzly . at the intersection at the west ramp employee hit some pot holes in the roadway causing employee's hardhat to fall off employee's head and bouncing employee's head off the roof of the haul truck . this resulted in the operator receiving a minor cut to employee's head .
employee was changing screen and did not time release of his side . was struck on lower right arm by screen .
employee walked through a flooded area and realized later he had liquid on his foot . he receive treatment and returned to work . when the burn did not heal , he was placed on whirlpool treatment .
the employee was making up roof bolts when an undetected piece of draw rock fell , striking him on the left shoulder . the employee continued to work until 3-4-02 at which time he saw a medical specialist that   placed him on restrictions at that time .
employee was hold bichromate plastic barrel liner in left hand while using utility knife to cut off tie wrap closure on bag . hand was in wrong position and knife cut left middle finger at joint closest to tip of finger , employee was taken to salem er where employee received 2 sutures
occurred while clearing material from under the tailgate . tip of right index finger crushed . when material was cleared from area tailgate dropped and finger tip was crushed in latch resulted in a fracture to the right index finger tip with a laceration that required sutures
employee was carrying bundle of t boards down longwall face , bumped shield , strained right shoulder
employee was walking too close to chute gate when he stepped on a rock and buckled his foot . a fracture resulted making this a reportable injury .
employee was fire bossing number 2 head when he slipped and twisted left knee .
the injured tripped on the rough bottom in the number 1 recovery entry of 23 butt longwall section . the injured struck his face and left knee on the bottom . he suffered an abrasion to his nose and a meniscus tear of the left knee .
lifting 100 lb bag from a pallet to put it on another pallet while bagging at a packing unit . ( employee was wearing a safety support belt . ) he said he felt a pain in his lower back .
while working on number 2 kiln tire , employee felt some metal flakes blow into his eye . foreign material ( steel ) removed from eye .
employee was adjusting the position of a tire/wheel assembly with boom hands during tire installation . the tire/wheel assembly was pressed against the rock bar on unit . as employee reached in to move the rock bar out of the way , the tire wheel assembly moved forward `` pinching '' his right middle finger between the boom hand and rock bar .
employee started to push drill steel up to drill hole and a piece of rock cut his left hand .
pulled muscle in shoulder while performing plant maintenance . after medical review , suggested that employee relax for a day or two .
employee stated was shoveling belt in sloppy conditions . as employee was dumping a shovel onto the belt , the mud adhered to the shovel causing it to contact the belt . when employee jerked the shovel back , employee felt a pain in lower left abdomen . employee exited mine and refused transportation . employee traveled to emergency room and was referred to specialist . employee is off work for unspecified amount of time .
fixing a leak in the slick line at 23w number 1 around 6 block when the coupler failed , spraying the miner with glue compound being used to `` rock lock '' the tailgate . miner missed no work , but was prescribed antibiotic eye drops . no problems with mining methods , training , personal protective equipment or compliance issues .
employee works on belts . he was prying a rock out of a tail piece when the pry bar slipped causing him to jerk his back out . mri was done by doctor but no results yet .
employee was lifting belt to put on top structure when his foot slipped , causing him to injured his lower back .
roof fall in number 7 intake entry of spruce laurel mains , 3 breaks inby spad number 13367 , 25 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' thick .
a roof fall was found on pre-shift at about 7:00 am . it was about 7 ' thick , 70 ' long and 20 ' wide .
employee was roofbolting in the number 5 heading . he was moving bolter over to get next bolt when bolter slid over on his right foot , injuring his big toe .
the employee tripped and tried to catch himself with his left hand and broke his little finger
victim brought roof bolts to section to supply roof bolter . the bolter was parked in break . the injured , while attempting to tram the bolter out to the intersection for loading , was pinned against the rib by the bolter causing a fracture to right femur . he was transported to hospital where he underwent surgery to set his leg .
the hoist was lowering in the automatic mode . the cage had an empty car on it when a brake shoe set at approx . 50 feet above the coal seam . only one shoe caught , causing the cage to bend its guide   rollers .
contractor foreman was cutting a 10 '' cast iron ductile water pipe using a gas powered saw . at approximately   1:35 the non metallic saw blade suddenly broke and pieces flew out from under protective guard . employee was wearing a secured full face shield . however , pieces flew up under the shield causing a laceration to the right side of his face . sutures were required . returned to work next day .
dozer operator came up from behind employee on pan , hit him too hard jarring his back and neck .
employee was installing a roofbolt , while pushing up on the bolt it spun and struck employee's hand .
employee opened a gate and was securing it to a t post with the barbed wire provided on the t post . as employee secured the gate with the wire , his finger was caught between the gate and a barb on the wire , cutting his finger . the laceration required 3 stitches . ( barbed wire has been removed to prevent any further occurrences . )
employee ran over a large rock in the roadway while running the scoop . he hit his head on the canopy and jammed his back when he came down on the seat .
employee was tensioning belts on a sump pump when the pump started and pinched his left thumb between the belt and the sheave wheel . the tip of the thumb was partially amputated .
employee stated he was resting with his foot up on the bumper of the scoop . a piece of roof rock fell and struck him on the head and knee , broke and fell to the ground . he continued to work and then had a mri done . his doctor took him off work on 12/16/2009 . mri showed a prior anterior cruciate ligament surgery and degeneration throughout the meniscus .
a roof fall measuring 45 ' by 18 ' by 7 ' occurred on the 7 right section near spad number   102 , no 2 entry to face . fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was overcome by carbon monoxide gas , man became light headed and nauseated , was taken to hospital and given oxygen . was able to return to work the same day but job foreman would not allow him   to .
employee was opening doors on a rail car and saw an extension cord hanging down . he went to move the cord . when he was moving the cord he was looking up . lime fell and covered the employee , lime got in his eye .
rockfall in number 1 entry of left side return one break inby spad 1176. rockfall was 24' long x 20' wide . set brattice line over to establish return and cribbed and dangered area off .
while using a pry bar to place a belly pan back on d-11 dozer the bar slipped striking employee on left ear .
employee was helping install cribs along the hazy section track . he was attempting to split a crib block with an axe when either the axe glanced or missed the crib block and struck his right ankle on the inside next to the ankle bone .
two ( 2 ) commercial steel erectors - cse employees were stuck in the preheat tower elevator . reset did not release elevator to landing . elevator mechanic called in to lower elevator . employees were stuck in the elevator for 50 minutes . employees were in constant communication with the control room during the incident. at no time were they unaccounted for .
the incident occurred on 3rd floor of pack house . employee was removing metal cover from a slide conveyor that was fixed by silicon . employee was prying off cover with hammer and screwdriver . he was struck on top   of the nose with cover when it was pried loose . employee needed 5 stitches but did not have any lost work days or restricted days as a result of injury .
employee was using diluted caustic solution to hose down mud and scale on side of a tank . some of the caustic solution splashed back and got into the employee's left eye . employee was seen by a doctor who prescribed   antibiotics to treat a small corneal abrasion . there was no lost time and only restricted duty .
employee was chipping slag from a weld . he had shaded safety glasses . he felt it was not light enough to use the shaded glasses . could not see with shaded glasses . removed glasses and continued to chip   slag . piece of weld flew into eye .
roof fall 100 ' 18' x 36 '' . 1 cross cut inby spad number 743 on the track and belt entry number 4 entry . 42 '' resin bolts were being used .
a hoist drum bearing overheated and blew apart igniting grease that is used to lubricate the bearings and hoist gearing machine was in operation . 2-150 lb dry chemical and 12-20 lb dry chemical ext . were used to put out the fire . fire dept . was called but not needed . damage was limited to the bearing that failed . fire was put out in 35-40 minutes .
injured was removing the wear plate from the 15-61 sala sump pump . when he lifted the plat , he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
the employee was installing 6 '' air and water pipe . as he aligned the pipe to install a victaulic coupling , he slipped and put out his hand to prevent a fall . his right hand was cut on a broken strand   of expanded metal used for ground support .
employee stepped out of cab onto a loose rock twisting his right leg and knee . he has been treated continuously since date of injury and on 4-20-05 he began losing time from work with limited restrictions of no squatting , climbing and standing more than 15 minutes every hours .
drilling hole for resin bolt , employee smashed his middle finger and nail .
setting spads in last open cross cut number 2 entry , ram car came around corner and did not see rodman and bumped into him knocking him several feet . rodman stated that he could not hear ram car due   to other equipment running .
employee was bagging hydrate lime . a bag busted and the hydrated lime went into his eyes . the lime irritated his eyes .
while riding in a mantrip , the mantrip passed a supply car . employee had his foot on the side rail of the mantrip . when the mantrip passed the supply car , employee's   foot was pinched between the mantrip vehicle   and the supply car .
employee was using a come-along to move an approximate 2,000 lb 5' x 8 ' railroad street cart back onto tracks . employee felt a strain in lower back with pain .
a roof fall in the 3 west entry at cross-cut number 17 in number 7 entry measuring approximately   60 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' . the area had been mined in march 2002 and supported with 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts . the fall was caused   by an undetected slip .
employee pulled muscle in lower back while reportedly mounting front end loader properly .
employee was unhooking a wire pull rope from a dozer and felt pain in his lower back . on 7/17/00 he sought medical attention and is to begin therapy on 7/24/00 for this event . therefore it is a medical occurrence only . he will not be away from work .
at approximately 5:50am , a roof fall was discovered on the 3 main belt line at between 17-18 cross-cut . the fall measured 20 ' long x 14 ' wide x 4.5 ' high . the area was bolted with 6 ' super twist primary roof bolts and 12 ' pt cable bolts . the fall was cleaned up and steel beams set under fall area with cribs built on top of the steel beams .
the employee states that on december 20 he was using a pipe wrench to open a valve . the cheater bar slipped causing him to injure himself . he did not report this . on january 18 while pulling a bar valve   he reinjured his right scapula and reported the injury . he was given a trigger point injection and is receiving physical therapy .
employee was roofbolting when a roofbolt bent . it smashed his finger between the bolt and the mast .
employee was removing clinker from clinker cooler . the employee's goggles came apart causing loose dust to enter right eye .
the injured came to the office on 6/21/05 and advised he was experiencing irritation in his left eye since approximately   thursday june 16,2005 and not improving . injured was set up with an appointment to see eye doctor , .
employee was standing on a coal ledge above the roof bolter holding a rib mesh . he lost control when the mesh broke free , employee fell approximately 5 ' from the ledge and hit his head causing a laceration and became disoriented .
cutting the tape off of the cord that was keeping the cord rolled up to use it and when employee went to pull the tape off after it had been cut employee forgot to close the folding razor knife and stabbed self in the chest .
employee was checking voltage at the continuous miner cat head at the power center with a small volt meter and it blew up in his hands .
employee was reaching down underneath belt to lift roller out of hanger and while pulling on roller it did not move but shoulder was pulled . he has been treating with a physician but has continued to work per doctor's instructions . doctor decided to do surgery on 5/1/2007 to repair a torn rotator cuff .
employee stepped through a brattice and a loose block fell out and struck employee on the right foot . employee did not start losing time until 9/24/02 due to foot being put in a cast
a mine fire was discovered at or near the conveyor belt slope entry near the bottom of the slope . no one was underground when smoke was discovered coming from the mine . firefighting activities have begun and are continuing . the time of the accident is the approximately   time smoke was discovered . no one was scheduled to work on this shift .
using relatively new wheelbarrow . when wheelbarrow filled up , employee picked up to dump contents . axel came out of clamping bracket , throwing weight and tilting wheelbarrow to left . belt missing on axel clamp .
employee performing maintenance on a drill . when exiting the drill , employee felt pain in knee stepping off the ladder . employee placed on restricted duty pending further testing .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west submain number 3 entry number 32 cross-cut . the fall was 20' long x 20 ' wide x 8' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' to 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall did not affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
employee was climbing up right side of 930 cat to check brake fluid . while standing on right rear tire his footing slipped and all his body weight was on left shoulder . employee was taken to company doctor and was given a cortisone injection on 11/12/09 .
employee was crossing the conveyor belt when the belt came on throwing him off , causing torn ligaments in his left knee .
employee was working on the dust belt tail pulley , when the slate bar slipped and he hit his knee on the adjustment all thread . he continued working until the shift was finished .
the section has wet and muddy conditions , employee twisted his knee when he turned to move .
employee was washing sweeper truck hopper out with high pressure water hose , when a piece of dry concrete fell down on top of his hat . employee had pain in neck and extending to mid back . after treating with company doctor , employee was referred to a specialist and due to restrictions , he could not return to work on 3/22/10 .
employee was looking at number 7 scaler boom connection and when walking forward , stepped on a slick spot and fell backwards on his back , using his arms to block the fall . employee did not express a need for treatment at the time of the incident . after experiencing shoulder pain , employee sought medical attention and was diagnosed with a torn tendon , requiring surgery .
employee was struck above the right eye by the ventilation tube hanger .
employee was reclaiming highwall with dozer when the dozer flipped and rolled several times landing in the road . employee was unconscious with labored breathing when they got to him .
employee was at a martin marietta ( customer ) job site and was using a customer provided 1 '' drive impact wrench to loosen/tighten bolts while changing out blow bars on a crusher . protruding pin from impact wrench extension caught employee's glove and twisted employee's right hand , bending thumb way back . employee sustained strain to hand , causing soft tissue/ligament damage/swelling . mri ordered .
during a belt splicing operation , the employee's knife slipped and cut his right   upper leg . he was taken to the emergency room , where stitches were used to close the wound .
he was handling a piece of corrugated sheet metal in the muddy conditions when it cut him .
injured was getting off his buggy in coal yard to get supplies when he fell on snow covered ice injuring his lower back .
while working on a piece of equipment he slipped and strained his medial collateral ligament in his left knee .
after being told to stay on cone deck the individual went up the side of the cone box anyway , in the process of getting down : he slipped and fell to the cone reservoir and then to the ground . he sustained laceration to the scalp and possibly fracture in vertebrae he is ambulatory . we have received no doctor report at this time .
the injured was located an oil leak on the roof bolter . he placed his left hand on the hose he suspected and instructed the operator to pressure it . unknowingly he had his left index finger directly   over the hole in the hose . when it was pressurized it pieced the skin and infected his finger with hydraulic oil .
the employee was repairing the manlift of the 120 shovel . when he depressed the latch mechanism , the lift swung away from the shovel causing the employee to lose his balance and fall approximately   twelve feet to   the ground . the incident became reportable on on january 11,2001 , when the employee sought medical attention for a chipped tooth .
employee was marking up chain hangers and tripped over a hollow block , fell to the ground and struck his left hand on another hollow block .
off duty employees traveling in private vehicle collided with another vehicle on mine access road . two employees sustained injuries including multiple contusions , abrasions , bruising and fractures to leg .
employee was rodding a number 1 feeder on 3 silo cb-2701 belt . the feeder was plugged off and employee continued to rod and a chunk broke loose and fell on the rodding bar twisting and jarring employee's back .
injured employee was troubleshooting an over-temperature problem on a head gate gear box . when the hose going from the gear box to the motor was removed , excess water from inside the hose spilled out onto his left arm saturating 3 layers of long-sleeve clothing causing severe burn .
6-a section - injured was holding an oil hose on the miner ( trying to find an oil leak ) the miner operator energized the machine . the hose injured was holding had a pin in it which injected hydraulic   oil into his right index finger .
the employee was attempting to bend a roofbolt to put in the roof , the bolt slipped forcing his hand into the bolting machine . this resulted in a broken bone , in his left hand , behind the ring finger .
employee reported numbness in right and left hands from the continuous years of working in different job duties at his mining career . surgery on 11/17/2011
employee alleges that while lifting a guard , he felt a sharp pain in his back .
employee was attempting to clear the suction line on a sump pump . he had hooked up a 1 '' water hose to the suction of the pump in an attempt to clear the plug . when the line cleared , lime slurry splashed   up and covered employee from head to toe . he sustained minor chemical burns to his cheeks and right ear . both eyes also sustained minor chemical burns . antibiotics were prescribed for the eyes , ma
employee was shoveling ribs in the number 6 track entry 11 breaks outby number 3 belt drive and a brow fell and struck him on the right side , injuring his right arm and head . brow was approximately 3 ' long , 2 ' wide , and 6 '' thick .
employee was repairing air conditioner on loader ( the screen came off and he was replacing it ) . he got two fingers caught in the air conditioner fan .
employee walked behind another employee who was grinding on a metal piece when a piece of metal flew from the grinder and hit him in the right eye .
a roof fall was discovered on this date . the fall occurred on 3-north-2 main return at cross-cut number 75 in the number 2 entry . the fall measured 25 ' by 25 ' and was 8 ' in thickness . the fall area was previously supported with 5 ' high-tech bolts and cribs . the fall area was cleaned up and resupported . there were no injuries or equipment affected with this fall nor was ventilation affected .
non-injury roof fall was found in 5 left panel off 4-north mains . the roof fall was found during a weekly examination . roof fall begins in number   5 entry of 5 left panel and extends inby to cross-cut no . 12. roof fall then continued into number   6 entry of 5 left panel . roof fall appears to be approximately   4 ft to 8 ft thick and approximately   18 to 20 feet wide ( see map ) . mine safety and health administration hotline notified .
employee was picking up a sheet of expanded metal . one corner of the sheet snagged the ground and forced the sheet against his elbow .
employee was stacking stone when he felt a pull in his back . the pain went up to his shoulder .
employee stung by bee on the arm . no allergic reaction , no medical treatment necessary .
employee was changing wear plates in sand screw . he cut bolt heads off with torch and was attempting to drive them out with a hammer . he was bracing himself with his left hand and when he swung the hammer to knock the bolts out of one wear plate , it glanced the other and hit his thumb .
the employee had completed her shift and was being seated on the bus to go home . the seat in front of her was reclined all the way back . as she manuevered into the seat , she twisted her left knee . she was evaluated at the emergency room . with a diagnosis of acute knee strain and given a full duty release to return to work . she continued to have problems and went to an orthopedist for further
air boat 1 launched for survey . survey began air boat shut down with 4 employees aboard . attendant notified ; notifications made ; plan formed to launch second air boat for retrieval . air boat launched . when they arrived to air boat 1 , air boat 2 quit running . mayday called ; supervisor   instructed 2 employees to get marsh master with paddle boat , plywood and rope to retrieve employees . marsh master overheated ; employees were removed .
employee shut his hand up in his vehicle door .
5/2/2013 employee advised he slipped and fell crossing over a lift jack on a dozer injuring his neck/shoulder . 5/5/2013 he went to arh emergency room and was examined by doctor and released . 5/6/2013 he went to doctor's office and taken off work with a neck strain . the insurer having found this injury compensable , this is being reported as a lost time injury .
installing liner bolts into number 3 rod mill . employee was using a `` spline drive '' impact to install two liner bolts on 3 rod mill . employee reported to medical stating that while using the spline drive his left arm and fingers felt tingly and slightly numb .
employee was oiling the number 1 southeast kiln bearing when some clinker dust was blown into his right eye . a coppus blower was being used at the time to help cool the bearing and most likely contributed to this incident .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the galatia north 10 , 1070 ' west entry number 3 ( 4w ) headgate off 5w longwall . the fall was approximately 40 ' long by 10-15 ' wide by approximately 6-10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall area will fall 18e .
employee shoveling spilled material ground to shoulder level and strained shoulder .
a fuse blew in the ross man hoist at 4:40 pm which disabled the man hoist . a message was left for   mine safety and health administration at 5:10 pm . the hoist was back in operation at 5:45 pm . two separate functional escapeways   were always in operation .
on 10/26/2014 injured was trying to reset a scoop breaker , his foot slipped and strained his knee . he went to the doctor on 11/6/2014 and was placed on restricted duty only .
employee working near welder , accidentally arc flashed in eyes . employee went to doctor that evening . received drops and ointment for flash burn .
employee was helping others to load flinger duster onto the bucket of the scoop . the injured ( not realizing where his foot was ) told the operator to lower the scoop bucket . the operator lowered the bucket and pinched his foot between the bucket and the mine floor . inattention to activity a factor .
standing in man basket , basket suddenly swung to the left and jarred employee's back .
employee fractured his right elbow . the employee was trouble shooting a piece of equipment that would not start . he was using a 4 ' ladder to diagnose the issue . he descending the ladder and missed a step and fell to the ground causing the injury .
while bolting employee had sand fall past his safety glasses and into his eye . he received a prescription for eye drops . no restrictions .
team leader pulling a water hose with mantrip , hose came around a mantrip and caught the right front tire , at this point water hose stretched , came loose . hose wrapped around employee's   legs , which caused employee   to fall on ground on his left side .
employee was working on a shield . the shear was cutting coal and a rock was thrown striking him on the right leg . sutures were required . no lost time .
bolt steel got hung in top and employee tried to get it out and slipped and hit employee's chest on the drill pot . the bolt steel fell out striking employee's pinky finger .
installing belt on main east 3 # belt , belt pulled into position and was in the process of being cut. employee was holding the upright belt against the rib when the belt was cut , it moved causing employee to loose balance and fall backwards , tripping over the draw bar of the belt dolly causing employee to fall on right elbow and ribs. employee worked 6-8 , then did not return to work until 14th with doctor excuse
injured was helping another employee change oil in the d11n bulldozer ( machine number 573 ) . employee was getting out of the machine when he stepped off the track backwards and fell to the ground . site conditions were sunny and warm . employee was taken to the hospital for x-rays .
miner was standing on floor at top of face . a loose board twisted causing miner to fall on his side . miner was examined by a doctor and found to be bruised .
packaging at r8 , stacking bags on pallet . packer stopped filling and bag was falling off saddle . employee turned back around to packer and attempted to catch falling bag ( 50 lbs ) . felt pain in middle of back . he was unable to finish shift due to increasing pain .
employee was picking clay balls from oversize gravel dumped out of a dump truck . employee walked up the side of pile of gravel about 3 to 4 feet , then slipped and strained and possibly tore a ligament in left knee .
employee lifted propane bottle out of jon boat when he felt pain in lower back .
employee was driving a shuttle car when he hit a hole in the roadway causing him to bounce and land hurting his back . he continues to work but the pain would not go away . he is now awaiting surgery . his last date worked was 6-17-03 .
injured was picking up a piece of wood , when he slid his arm down to get a better grip and wood splinter embedded into his forearm .
employee stepped wrong on 3-1-01 he was not concerned and did not want medical treatment on 6-5-01 he advised that he wanted to go to the clinic just to have his knee checked . had mri 6-18-01 .
( injured worker ) was adjusting the crusher apron with shims on the portable crushing unit . a hydraulic ram that raises the aprons had a bent cylinder , which limited the stroke . the pre-shift inspection sheet did not indicate an issue nor was it reported to the manager . injured worker installed a makeshift support whereas the tip of employee's thumb caught between the cylinder and the makeshift support
employee's were raking ash from kiln number 2 grates ; ash dust went into employee's eyes .
the employee was working on the 6th floor of preheater tower building scaffolds . the employee stated that he was experiencing pain in his legs and thought nothing of it . employee stated , when he got home his wife gave him some tylenol . he stated that when he woke up his whole right leg was numb .
employee was prying and lifting with slate bar and strained back .
while cleaning hopper out under grizzly on jaw feeder using a bar into hopper , bar hit back wall of hopper kicking bar off to the side striking me on the left check
during a pre-shift examination an unintentional roof fall was found in the number 3 entry intersection . the fall measure 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' and the area was bolted with 4 ' resin bolts . there were no injuries   or property damage reported .
employee filed an alleged hearing loss claim on 9/2/04 . received notice on 9/22/04 , claim number   2005009637
fell down stairway . talked to man that fell . he had no recognition of how he fell . no metal skids on wooden steps and improper illumination . was violation statements .
will was exiting cab and lost footing on the access ladder . will fell approximately 55 '' to the ground . it resulted in non-displaced posterior malleolar and oblique fractures through the distal right tibial metaphysis . a minimally displaced oblique fracture of the proximal right fibula .
employee tripped beside miner , elbow hit bundle of roof plates caused laceration . cause of injury was awareness . compliance with rules and regulations not a factor .
employee was greasing drive shaft on volvo end dump . after finishing he stood up after being bent over and then notified his shoulder was hurting .
employee was preparing some duct work for install when he proceeded to align duct with his right hand slipped cutting his wrist with a sharp corner of the duct . all personal protective equipment were being used .
while removing rocks from a crusher 1/30/2017 and welding in a crusher the next day employee reported a strain to right knee . on 2/16 employee was evaluated and the doctor prescribed physical therapy making the injury reportable . employee continues to work full duty .
employee was moving a water hose and lost his footing falling . employee received fracture to left middle finger .
employee lacerated his left 4th finger when his wrench slipped and he struck his hand on a rod . sutures were used .
welding plate steel on reject bin . tack welded plate with hand under plate , plate steel fell on left hand . he was taken to emergency room . where his hand was set , he was released to work . he went to orthopedic   surgeon who reset hand and took him off work for 1 week .
employee was entering the excavator climbing up the ladder to the machine . he slipped on ladder bumping right   leg and holding on rail/handle with left arm/hand to stop his fall on 06/26/2008 . employee remained at work until surgery on 09/12/2008 for a ligament in his left wrist that was repaired . employee remains off duty .
employee standing next to shovel while vendor and company mechanic were taking new style teeth off to check and clean . while mechanic was securing pin in adaptor with sledge hammer a piece of steel flew off imbedded in right shoulder received medical name on 9-9-02 indicating surgery removal .
employee was checking equipment , bent over under pipe , then tripped over bolt on tank top . strain to lower back . employee missed 5/4/04 ( 1 day ) thus constituting mine safety and health administration reportability .
failure to lower dump bed on 773 haul truck , resulting in hitting alma school bridge . injury caused by safety glasses cutting his nose due to contact with the steering wheel .
employee was replacing a cross member and replacing bolts in s51 ( vibrating grizzly ) , while he was kneeling down he felt a pop in his knee and it was hard to get up and down off the plant .
employee and coworker were opening valve . valve was stiff . employee reported pain in left shoulder after . employee was taken to the emergency room was released back to work . employee was on last schedule work day . employee reported to work on 6/28/17 reported that employee still had pain in shoulder . employee went to primary care physician on 6/30/17 . employee report on 7/3/17 to us that employee had been taken off work and referred to another physician .
potential carpal tunnel syndrome right wrist . on 1-17-02 the company accepted the employee's claim of carpal tunnel syndrome in right wrist . although employee firs reported pain in right wrist while opera ting a forklift on 12-10-02 and sought medical attention and removed from service . it was not determined until 01-17-02 from an independent medical review to be work related .
employee was dismounting the caterpillar 980-b front-end loader . employee claims he had mud on his boots that caused his foot to slip off of the top step of the loader he fell to the ground he hit his knee when he fell .
employee was replacing bolts on screen spring paddle steel plate , when it came loose and pinched his left wrist against steel angle iron .
employee was driving a small mantrip into a cross-cut and attempted to manuever past a coal hauler battery when his left front tire contacted the left rib . this caused the steering wheel to jerk and spin suddenly . the spoke of the steering wheel struck the top of his hand . a subsequent mri indicated a fracture , and the employee was taken off work .
roof fall occurred on 7/12/08 , no travel way or air way was blocked . no injuries occurred from the fall , the fall occurred on 3rt off of 5rt mains on spad 2713 in the intersection . the fall measured 20 ft wide by 20 ft in length and fell from above anchor point .
employee had put oil in his scoop . while walking back to get into the operator deck some small pieces of rock fell from between the bolts and hit him on the top of his shoulders and upper back .
on 12-6-00 employee reports he hit his elbow while at work on 12-5-00. on 12-7-00 he was taken to see a doctor and diagnosed with a insect bite . on 12-8-00 he went back for follow up and was referred to a hospital and diagnosed with a contusion and an infection , admitted and treated during the weekend , released and placed on modified duty .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the old number 1 section ( 001-0 mobile mining unit ) of this mine , at spad # 246. the fall was approximately 5 ' to 6' high x 18' wide x 40' long . the fall has been breakered off .
employee was diagnosed with pneumoconiosis by a board certified doctor in internal medicine on 11/27/15 . received the email on 5/24/16 . the employee is still working .
elevator malfunction due to defective door switches . repaired and inspected . put back into service at 12:47 pm .
a roof fall occurred in number 11 entry of the 6th east at the 1800 ' station . the fall was 6 ' thick 20 ' wide and 20 ' long . the fall did not effect ventilation , travel , or cause any injury . it did damage continuous miner . the area had been bolted with 3 ' conventional bolts and 6 ' point anchor bolts .
while working on crusher jaw - employee injured elbow while pulling hard on wrench . employee reported 3-19-01 .
employee was using a chop saw to cut a piece of metal . when it cut through his finger slipped into the blade causing a laceration requiring 7 sutures .
reattaching flex hose to cement ( buck ) trailer when flex hose sprang back causing coupler to hit employee in mouth chipping two teeth requiring permanent capping . employee grabbed hose rather than coupler .
a mechanic was in the process of reinstalling a cover on the roof bolter when it slipped out of his hands and struck him on both shins . he was taken to doctor office where he received 6 stitches in his left shin . he was placed on restrictive duty by doctor .
employee was putting drill upon 6 ft steel . ( 3 ft projection out of bottom ) . he lost balance and fell causing back strain .
employee was removing armored face conveyor chain links after they had been cut . a flight was also removed . employee picked up flight to throw on headgate when he injured his left shoulder . employee continued working until 12/5/07 when he sought medical attention and was prescribed restricted work duties .
employee was crossing ( climbing ) across a concrete form carrier . he slipped and fell , striking his left knee against the ratchet jack .
employee was jackhammering lumps in clinker silo # 2. he was maneuvering in one hand while removing material with the other which caused strain on left wrist .
two employees were working at removing monorail at the longwall headgate . after removing a section the injured employee turned to throw it on top of the stage loader he stated he felt pain in his left   shoulder .
employee tripped and fell down ( 4 ) steps leaving scale house
employee was awarded 5 % ppd benefits for occupational pneumoconiosis on 12/18/01 . employer was notified by mail on 1/4/02 .
employee called for the road from number 9 head and was told to watch for the supply man who was rockdusting . employee continued traveling through the rock dust with very low visibility and ran into the supply motor at number 16 head . the impact threw him into the canopy post breaking his cheek bone and giving him a slight concussion .
employee alleges that while working on the cone putting a sensor into place he lost his footing and fell against the feed shoot .
while shoveling out the feed hopper of the wash plant , employee strained his lower back .
employee was kneeling down discussing the completion of a job with his coworker . when he stood up he experienced dizziness . he attempted to grab onto the handrail but missed . he fell face first onto the grating . he lacerated his mouth and eye and injured his wrist .
rock fall occurred at spad 1005 neutral beside number 7 belt . rock was 20' x 22 ' from 0 to 42 '' . area was cribbed off and did not impede travel or ventilation .
as employee was walking from the cage , he stepped in a hole , slipped and fell .
the mine received notification on april 21 , 2016 , that this employee was granted a 2.57 % award for permanent impairment from noise-induced hearing loss . the incident was caused by the employee's failure to wear the appropriate personal protective equipment - hearing protection throughout employee's career . claim 2/11/2016 .
employee was removing a drive pulley guard when it shifted and pinched his finger between the guard and the support leg causing a laceration . employee received several sutures .
employee was operating a 980g loader , making repairs to a leaking damn , at which time he started feeling pains in his lower back . he attributes the pain to all of the jarring bouncing on the loader .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by foreman in old works . fall measured 20 ' wide x 70 ' long x 8 ' high . fall located between 40 cross cuts out by number 2 section near spad number 4605 .
employee was operating a haultruck while the truck was being loaded , a large   rock fell out of the shovel bucket and into the truck bed . this caused the cab to jerk and the employee reported he bumped his head on the seats headrest . employee later complained of headache , dizziness , confusion . 1st saw doctor on 1-25-02. cat scan showed a cerebral mass . ordered mri to confirm . results in a few days .
the employee was trouble shooting a hydraulic problem on a piece of equipment . the employee stood up from a stooped position and felt pain in the right knee . the employee continued to work until surgical intervention was required on november 12 , 2009 , at this point the incident became an mine safety and health administration reportable `` accident '' .
employee was working in number 5 finish mill removing mill liners . employee was prying under liner while other employee was using a 20 lb . sledge to loosen liner . pieces of liner broke off striking employee in the upper right   arm and upper leg . small piece was removed from upper arm stitches were required . the piece in his upper leg required surgery lt as of 08/28/09 .
employee was removing the pan liners on the conveyor , he had all the liners loose but two when he stepped on a loose pan which fell out , his other leg which was on the last pan then broke through th at pan and employee fell about 4 ' to the ground .
employee received an electrical shock while attempting to replace a power board on the continuous miner .
employee was operating a d10 dozer to lower the face height and push down large rocks from the cap rock for the loader . the operator was developing a key cut against the highwall side when he struck a large rock that caused the blade to skim over and as the tracks advanced , the dozer tipped over on its side .
while removing a jammed piece of slate in the automatic trimmer , which employee had turned off , his arm hit one of the trimmer blades , cutting arm .
employee was installing a roof bolt in the hole . when he put the roof bolt under the glue and into the wrench , the roof bolt plate struck him on the right forearm causing laceration .
the supervisor was using a four foot bar to pry down a loose rib . the top portion of the rib was loose and when he pried the top area , the bottom part of the rib popped out and landed on his left foot . employee was wearing leather metatarsal boots. x-ray showed fractures to his left foot .
a roof fall was discovered at 64 break number 1 south mains in the number 2 entry the fall measured 20 ' wide x 20 ' long x 7 ' thick and did not affect ventilation or travel .
was inspecting back-filling operation . one man went to move the compactor wacker and employee reached to help him move it and when he did employee felt a snap and shooting pain in upper arm .
he was walking down return to talk with foreman about supplies , when rib rushed out into entry and knocked his feet out from beneath him . falling to the ground .
a fall of roof occurred in the 1st left panel in number 3 entry at station spad number 8 + 20 , 17 cross cut . the fall was approximately 50 feet in length x 20 feet in width x 12 feet thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
employee was walking along the e-17 longwall stageloader carrying a spray bar jack when he stepped on a 42 mm chain and felt a pinch on the top of his right foot . he continued to work until 5/17/08 when he began missing work .
employee was lifting a piece of belt to load on his golf cart when he felt a pain in his lower back . his back continued to bother him and on 10/26/01 he had surgery . he started missing work on 10/26/01
employee was roof bolting putting in cable bolts , when he had the hole drilled the proper length , he started to take out the steels when they got stuck , he got the first pusher steel out . when he looked   up to the other ones , he had his left hand on the head of the bolter head , and the steels released and hit his left hand on bolter head .
employee sustained a laceration to his finger on his left hand while pulling on a bar . the bar broke free smashing his finger between the stack of bars and the he was pulling on . the laceration   required sutures .
employee was installing a strap with a roof bolter . 1 end was bolted to the top . as he was trying to push it around to get it straight , his footing slipped and he fell against the strap resulting in a cut to his wrist . cut was between gloves and kevlar sleeve . he was taken to whitesburg arh and received 5 stitches . he was released to full duty and returned to the mine .
when working at the dock employee felt a sharp pain in his left shoulder . it is suspected that he has a torn rotator cuff and he is on restricted duty .
injured was walking into the 8th north seals when he stepped in a hole and twisted his right knee causing pain and discomfort . he continued working . on 11/8/01 he went to the doctor and received   medication for inflammation . on 11/13 he went for a mri . he still has not missed any work at this time . it didn't become reportable until now .
employee was checking coolant on a grader . his foot slipped off of step and fell .
was walking after getting out of truck . did not slip , trip or fall . felt sharp pain his right knee . it is my opinion that this is a recurrence of his long term knee problems , however i received   a citation for failing to report this as a new event . i am reporting this to abate this citation .
the number 1 belt conveyor stalled during normal operations , the injured employee and coworker were told to check the problem out . the v-belt guard was removed . employee placed hand on the upper v-belt . the belt conveyor pressure released itself turning counter clockwise pulling employee's fingers into the pulley , severing parts of three fingers .
during part 50 audit , this injury was determined reportable due to physical therapy therapy . employee strained his back while pulling belt at the tailpiece of the longwall . cause of this injury was having body twisted while pulling . compliance with rules/regulations , mining equipment/systems not a factor , personal protective equipment ( back support ) and miner proficiency may be a factor .
a roof fall occurred on the 3 w roadway at cross-cut 5 in entry # 5. the cause of the fall was weak laminated roof shale . the fall blocked a supply road to the wheatland portal . the fall will be cleaned up and the roof and area will be re-supported .
employee energized the scoop battery charger , and an electrical flash occurred , causing his right hand , neck and forehead to be burned .
while examining number 1 south belt , employee tripped over a water cine and fell . thus injuring his knee . employee started missing work on 10/11/02 .
injured employee was helping change urethane screens when a coworker pounding wedges lost his grip on a hammer . the hammer struck the injured employee in the nose causing a nose bleed and immediate swelling . a follow up appointment with an ear , nose and throat specialist on 5/27/2008 determined as the swelling went down that there was a hairline fracture to the tip of his nose .
employee was moving barrels of oil around for the kiln gear reducers oil replacement and that night his back began to bother him .
during kiln shutdown , employee was using impact wrench to tighten bolts on the mid-kiln probes at the rotary kiln between the shell and shroud . to do the job , he had to lay on his back or side , and he got a foreign body in his right eye . physician removed foreign body with needle and prescribed medication .
associate was helping out at the wash plant , raking fines at the dewatering screen when the rake got caught and yanked out of the associates hand .
railroad switch was iced over . employee jumped on it to dislodge it . foot slipped and twisted ankle
employee stated that he was observing several employees making a splice in   c   belt . the employees were using a splice machine . employee reached to move the plunger when another employee struck his left hand and left index finger with a sixteen pound sledgehammer .
employee stepped down off platform at kiln 2 vent fan , twisted knee and felt pain . he reported incident but refused medical treatment on this date . follow up showed torn left medial meniscus in left knee . surgery on 11/02/2006 made this a reportable lost time accident as of this date .
employee was moving some rocks and felt a strong pain in his back , he continued to work and the pain did not go away so he went to the hospital .
employee turned in letter stating that employee had been diagnosed with silicosis .
employee was given a diagnosis of pneumoconiosis by doctor on 1/19/06 and the safety department was notified 2/8/06 . he has not missed any work to date
employee was cleaning the kiln riser using the woma lance . as he pulled trigger , a pin hole in the barrel allowed the high pressure water to shoot through employee's glove .
injured was performing clean-up work in lime basement area using a high pressure water jet . injured's feet slipped on wet lime causing him to fall . when he fell , he accidentally hit the trigger of the water jet spray nozzle and shot the top of his right foot .
employee was removing a wheel chock that was used to fill in a ditch that caused the buggy to get high centered , when removing the last piece of timber from the back wheel , the unit moved forward 2 - 3 '' causing his right thumb to be pinched/caught between the buggy rear mancarrier and the wheel chock pinching the tip of the right thumb off .
injured was riding mantrip when the portal bus came upon a broken rail one part went down one part stayed causing bus to come to a sudden stop . throwing men forward causing a bruise to right hip and neck .
employee was entering his truck when his foot slipped and his leg struck the cat walk .
the roof bolter was stuck in the roadway . when the scoop operator pushed on the back of the bolter to straighten it out , the front of the bolter slid into employee who had walked to the front side of the bolter fouling him against the rib .
in the process of chipping ice in the livingston portal elevator shaft , a piece of ice fell damaging an elevator door switch on the shaft bottom . an employee became stuck on the elevator in the process . the employee was able to get off elevator at 7:48pm . there were no injuries as a result of this incident .
employee was cutting with torch helping welder . the welder flashed causing a burn to both eyes .
employee was dumping lead cans into volvo loader . while attempting to hook the crane arm on the can ear , his finger was mashed between the crane arm and the can ear . laceration to right middle finger , 1st joint and laceration requiring 11 sutures .
employee was using a cross-over to go make a seal on the examination route . when they stepped off of the cross-over they slipped and cut head on the hand rail of the cross-over . employee received 3 staples to close the wound but returned to work on the next shift . no work was missed due to this incident .
employee had raised the forks and mask of the mega trac to see what was needed to repair or replace the lift jack . the employee positioned himself under the mask ; the mask leaked down and pinned the employee between the mine floor and mask .
lightning strike on surface initiated underground face rounds . no injuries or damage . mine was utilizing electric initiation system for nonel face rounds . potential pathway for lightning to induce current in blasting system was determined .
when the drill bit contacted the immediate roof a layer of draw rock measuring 17 inches x 17 inches x feather edge to 1 inch thick , fell striking employee on employee's right thumb and forefinger resulting in 2 broken bones and 1 fractured bone .
employee tightening lug nuts on coal truck wheel . wrench slipped . employee lost balance , fell and hit on his left side and hand .
while on mantrip , face contacted roof , resulting in cut over eye and blackening of right eye .
employee cut a tree about 6 inches in diameter . the tree fell across a tree lying on the ground . the butt of the tree he cut sprung up and struck him in the jaw .
employee was working at the power house on the number 2 boiler for about 2 hours without a break or water when he began to experience muscle cramps .
employee was using a chain ratchet to remove a cable tray off of old stage loader in old pullout area when chain ratchet came loose striking him in the mouth , causing a laceration requiring 4 sutures . this was employee's last shift before starting his already-scheduled vacation . he returned to work on next scheduled shift .
employee was loading highway truck tires into van to take to vendor for balancing . when putting tires into van , one tire fell back against his leg , hyperextending his left knee .
employee stepped on a plastic shield and slipped , hyperextending her right knee .
on 6/14/2013 we were notified by workers compensation that he was awarded coal workers' pneumoconiosis benefits . employee last worked on 3/31/2008 and is no longer employed with the company . the accident date of 3/31/2008 is to accommodate online reporting per mine safety and health administration ( denver ) instructions .
employee was changing bottom deck screen on station 8. he went to climb onto bottom deck screen with his left hand and felt pain through his arm and shoulder . employee could not straighten arm without feeling pain .
employee was bending a piece of metal down a drain hole when the metal snapped back and lacerated his right forearm .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west submain , entry number 3 , cross-cut # 19. the fall was approximately 20 ' long , 20 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
while working with another employee to install a return roller , the roller slipped out of employee hands and hit him in the nose .
injured was climbing onto left side of d9t dozer . when he reached the landing to the cab and began to open the cab door he slipped . he turned his body and slipped to the ground landing on his feet and buttocks . strained right shoulder , lower back and right hip . possible subluxation of right hip .
employee states she was carrying piece of metal and tripped over extension cord that contractor had just put in place . she fell and struck knees on grating . got prescription for ibuprofen . ( has been under review . )
employee was assisting in setting tailpiece when 3/8 '' chain broke and turned one side of tailpiece loose striking employee in lower back and buttocks .
employee slipped and fell on handrails while dismantling forms .
employee was operating the drill and he went to step out of the cab to check on his drill depth . he lost his footing and fell from the drill deck approximately 6 feet . he fell on his right shoulder and right side of his face .
employee was installing fence guarding under the plant feed belt . employee kneeled down and reached out to pick up one end of a fence panel and felt a pain in his back . employee was treated at charlston area medical center memorial division where he received injections . employee began missing work 3/17/14 and did not contact management or safety to inform us of his medical treatment .
member was cutting belt in order to make a splice for a belt move . while cutting the belt , the knife slipped cutting his knee . member received 11 stitches to his right knee .
employee was hanging flypads when he was struck by a scoop on the working section .
employee was operating diesel ram car , ran car under driscoplex dewatering pipe . adequate clearance was not provided . pipe came into operators compartment striking employee . employee began missing work 06202005
on 2/13/06 due to occupational illness , as substantiated by medical records/reports , employee became unable to work because of the ailments described in medical reports of previous account 11/15/03 . employee stated this is an ongoing problem since original account 11/15/03 and not due to one single event at the mine , but repeated trauma over extended period since 11/15/03
the employee was welding the hopper perimeter while in a position kneeling at ground level . the area was well ventilated and several other employees were working nearby . for an undetermined reason , the employee lost consciousness and hit his face on the structural steel he was welding . he regained awareness and climbed from the hopper on his own power . at the emergency room he received sutures in his upper lip .
employee cleaning surface belt structure , slipped on pipe and hit left kneecap on structure . returned for next scheduled shift . worked until 1/3/08 . condition had worsened over time requiring surgery on 1/3/08 .
while bolting a piece of roof scale fell striking the employee above the right knee which resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
injured was replacing a return roller on a conveyor . as he pulled the old roller out from underneath the conveyor it caught on the   conveyor support structure causing a shoulder strain prescribed   physical therapy 3-27-00 .
he was on his machine and it malfunctioned ... the blade came down too quickly . when he got his hand away from the blade his left index finger got trapped between the stone and the head of the machine   . that took the tip of his finger off .
employee was walking to his truck and rolled his ankle in a rut .
the employee was operating scoop hauling timbers to section and the band broke allowing timbers to roll and scatter about the mine floor . he stopped the machine and was dismounting , getting his foot caught twisting his right   knee .
while dropping the miner cable in the number 6 entry the injured person felt a sharp pain in the lower back . he continued trying to work but the pain continued to increase . scoop operator transferred   him outside on the section mantrip .
cable wheel hanging slipped out of hand hit in face knocking injures person to ground .
employee has been experiencing pain and numbness in his left arm , hand and elbow . an appointment was secured with the doctor . he was diagnosed with carpal tunnel and was placed on restricted duty   until he could see an orthopedic specialist . he is scheduled to have surgery on february 19 , 2003 .
employee was standing on bolter boom in down position , inserting a tube of glue into a drilled hole . employee slipped off bolter boom striking his left elbow against the side of the bolter .
employee was unloading timbers and dropped a timber which landed on top of his left hand which he had lying on a scoop bucket .
the employee was int he process of removing track rails . when lifting on a rail loose a slate bar , he felt a pain in his left shoulder and arm .
employee was adjusting kiln when a sudden gust of wind blew a foreign object into his eye . he went to the clinic for treatment where they removed a piece of steel that was embedded in his left eye .
crew was adding a piece of washover casing on an angle hole . employee's left middle finger was pinched between casing and derrick . fracture to tip of finger . x-ray , splint , and return to work
as bolter cable was reeled up , employee was struck by cable on right knee . employee had micro surgery on 9-1-16 and became reportable at that time . employee did not miss any work and is currently on restricted duty .
on the south section 1st southeast   submains in number 2 entry at spad number 15 and 95 roof fall occurred . the fall was 25 ' long 18 ' wide and 10-12 ' thick . no equipment involved , vent not affected .
employee was helping to saw cut an opening in the concrete. he was wearing safety glass and a face shield along with respirator because of the dust . he stopped cutting and was taking a short break   and was removing his safety equipment causing the dust to fall in his eyes . he started rubbing his eyes and pushed the dust farther . then we took him to emergency room .
employee was using a come-along to clean up under the 7 x 30 and pulled something in his back .
lifting on wheel unit , employee said he hurt his back .
the cedar creek service elevator was out os service from approx . 200 am until 5 20 am due to a wire being off of the interlock l conductor .
employee was loading glue on bolter felt lower back give out .
employee was cleaning rock off section crusher when a rock smashed his right index finger .
foreman was fatally injured when he was crushed with the rear wheels of a loaded ford 9000 coal truck . the accident occurred when the victim bent over to move a water hose and was crushed by the   rear wheels of the coal truck moving in reverse toward the raw coal bins .
employee was moving some metal screens around in the back of pickup truck with the help of a vendor . doing so , employee's finger got caught between two of them and caused the thin edge of the screen to cut into finger tip . it cut part of the nail so it required 2 stitches .
employee was shoveling and got clinker dust in his eyes . he was given first aid and was alright . that evening he went to the emergency room without notifying company representatives . because of the patient privacy act , we were not able to obtain medical information until today 2/5/2010 , at which time this became reportable .
ie unsuccessfully tried pulling a pin from a belt splice . employee used a claw hammer to grab the pin then struck the claw hammer with another hammer . as hammer struck hammer a metal shard dislodged , became a projectile and struck the injured employee's left forearm . the shard was removed at the local emergency room , two sutures were required to close the opening caused by removing the shard .
as the bolter was being trammed backwards in a narrow place , employee tried to get by the bolter as it was moving and got caught between the bolter and rib .
while jogging the blower on the 08-04 fk pump , dust flew into the employee left eye .
employee was putting up a 12 foot rope bolt and some draw rock fell out around it and the plate came down and cut his wrist , he received 5 stitch .
employee was walking on unlevel dirt drive when he sprained his ankle .
employee was injured during roof bolting procedures . he inserted the drill steel into the drill pot of a dual head roof bolter , raised the boom to start the drilling process . when the drill steel came in contact with the roof a small piece of draw rock fell measuring approximately 1 ' x 1 ' and 0 to 1 '' thick striking him on the forearm causing a laceration that required four sutures to close .
employee was hanging miner cable and stepped on a small piece of roof rock and felt pain in his left foot . there is no mechanism of injury due to the sole of the work boots being extremely thick . he has had no prior foot pain due to his pre-existing condition of having a cavovarus foot . he was taken off work on april 11 , 2014 .
employee was trying to open primary jaw with borrowed porter power when adjuster bolt holding two suppressed springs broke and the plate holding the springs hit his right leg . was given a restricted   duty release on 2/4/04 which was within his regular job functions . however , he returned to the doctor on 2/10/04 and was given a release that was not within his normal duties .
getting ice from ice machine , door fell down hitting employee on nose causing a fracture .
employee was installing a tensioner cylinder in tailgate using a crane . he pushed on cylinder to line pinhole up and felt something in shoulder snap .
maintenance worker had been cutting , welding , and preforming regular maintenance duties throughout the day . employee was perspiring and used sleeve to wipe perspiration from cheeks . few minutes later employee felt like eye had something in it . employee washed eye out , but eye was still irritated . took employee to doctor . eye was scratched . prescription given to prevent infection .
employee was walking along the plant feed belt and he tripped on an   i   beam causing him to fall . as he was falling he reached out his right hand to break his fall causing a sprain to his right   hand .
employee was knocking stoppings with sledge hammer and moving cinder blocks and moving a pump . employee's back started tightening up and pain and a burning sensation started in his lower back radiating up to his shoulders . employee's left leg and hip started getting numbness in them the next day .
a maintenance employee was rolling up 50 foot sections of an old conveyor belt for disposal . after finishing rolling up 3 sections the employee started another section . employee started rolling in the kneeling position for 1 turn then employee stood up and hurt employee's lower back . employee went to a doctor on 4/3/17 who diagnose a muscle strain and reported the injury to management at that time .
employee was hanging hog panel to rib screen when a piece of t channel dislodged from the roof and struck him on the head . medical treatment injury .
employee was removing ventilation curtain in the number 5 intersection to move the miner to the number 6 heading . the employee could not get the curtain down . he then stepped on the bottom of curtain to gain leverage . the employee did not know there was a pogo stick on the back of the curtain . he pulled the curtain down bringing the pogo stick with it . the stick struck employee in the mouth , miner chipped tooth .
mining operation was in process of changing the main hoist cable . employees were using the escape hoist to enter and exit the mine . while 3 employees were on escape hoist , the hoist malfunctioned , suspending the 3 for approximately   15 mins . temporary   repairs made to extract miners . mine shut down until permanent repairs made . mine safety and health administration notified at 0500 hours and left voice message .
employee became weak from heat and loss of fluid due to 95 degree temperature and humidity .
employee was shoveling material off of p-5 belt and figures that he pulled some muscles in his back while doing that . he didn't feel any pain right away , until friday ( 2-21-03 ) morning .
employee pinched finger between boom of service truck and cap/bar on crusher . employee received 3 stitches and broke the tip of finger .
the employee was attempting to remove a broken carbis cage , but it was stuck . employee kicked the cage to free it , resulting in an injury to right foot . initially , the pain was not severe , and employee thought it would subside . on 04/03 , employee reported to their supervisor that they would miss work due to the injury . employee later saw a doctor and found that they had fractured their 5th metatarsal .
employee was turning a 4 yard mucker around at a muckbay , when he over steered in the turn , running into the rib with the bucket , he was leaning forward when the bucket hit the rib and he struck his mouth on the door . this resulted in a laceration , which required 1 suture . full release was issued and he reported for his next shift .
abnormal chest x-rays found during routine pulmonary function/chest x-rays company conservation program screening . when a second opinion was obtained by pulmonary specialist , it was diagnosed as pneumoconiosis , felt to be consistent with work related exposure to diatomaceous earth .
employee was repositioning a blower assembly ( fan and motor ) to put heavy side against dolly back ribs , when he felt a sharp pain in lower left side of back . employee was taken to doctor and put on restricted duty .
employee was lifting a piece of 4' x 1 ' metal punch plate when his left hand was punctured by the edge of the metal . he was taken to gibson general emergency room in princeton , in where he received one suture and a tetanus shot .
road was dry ; weather warm and overcast . he lost control of volvo truck as he started down hill and jumped out , breaking his left collar bone .
employee was shoveling coal onto the belt in the raw coal tunnel when he experienced pain in his neck and back .
employee stated that he was uncoupling a 3 '' victaulic alum . water line that was hung on a conveyor tail piece and against a coal rib . not realizing the there was tension on the pipe when he uncoupled it and he was standing on the loaded side and the line sprang back and struck him on the leg . he was removed from the mine and transported to medical services .
employee went to see a doctor on 1/16/04 and was placed on restricted duty until 1/19/04 due to a fracture to his toe . employee was turning over a skid steer bucket to install a new bottom piece c and bucket dropped on his left foot causing a contusion to left foot and a fraction to his left toe .
roof fall between belt and track at break . 29 on 1 south belt . fall is approximately 19 foot wide . there is a permanent stopping on belt side of fall and the intersection is cribbed on both sides .
employee was hit by rock , that fell between pins and rib .
the operator heard a noise on the top of the engine compartment of a 980 loader # 308. the operator got out of the cab to check it out . as he started to go back into the cab lost his grip and fell   to the ground .
employee was removing nuts and bolts from a front-end loader with an airwrench employee came into contact with spinning bolt and lacerated finger
employee was using a torch to cut a drive line free and a spark went behind his safety glasses and burned his eyelid .
the employee was attempting to align two pieces of polypipe . when the two pieces of pipe came together , they pinched his right hand causing a laceration on his ring finger , which required six ( 6 ) stitches .
member stepped on a nail that had been in a pallet . went to hospital after work and received a tetanus shot .
welder was air arcing in the msb weld shop on a truck box . he apparently experienced a foreign body in his right eye . nothing found in eye but prescriptive medication was administered as a pre caution .
employee was adjusting cooler pallets . the pallet arm was held down with 50 ton hydraulic portapower head . he had just finished tightening the pallet arm wheel bolt and was removing pneumatic impact wrench   the air hose to the wrench hit the pressure release lever on the hydraulic pump for the porta power had and the head fell out from the top of the pallet arm and landed on his toes
employee was assisting with completion of conveyor belt replacement and was guiding large tail pulley guarding screen into final position when the tip of his finger got caught in a pinch point contact of upper and lower guards that cover the tail pulley .
employee was picking up stone to stack . when he went to set a piece down , he did not get his hand out from under the stone and it slid down and smashed his fingers - causing one to be broken .
the employee was working on the main bag house - west collecting screw . the screw was chocked up and he was driving the slide gates out to dump the screw . as he was striking the gate handle with   a hammer , he missed and hit his right hand on the handle of the slide .
employee was attempting to move 50-gallon barrels of oil when the rims on the barrels came together , pinching his left thumb . ( cut/bruised - stitches required . )
employee was preparing to service transmission of the 988g loader . he had jack stand in place and was in the process of placing the bottle jack . the bottle jack slipped out of his hand before it was fully on the jack stand and fell on employee's thumb . the impact broke the thumb in three places . this was found on 12/22 ; it was thought to be a sprain when it first happened .
the employee was loading belt structure onto a pallet . employee fractured right ring finger and also received 5 stitches .
employee was observing the continuous miner grading bottom when he was struck by a piece of coalrib and rock brow .
the employee was cleaning the south tower using a broom to sweep the floors . airborne dust entered the employee's right eye while performing this task . the employee went to the doctor and had the eye flushed and was   given a prescription of eye drops .
customer was driving the empty truck down the quarry road when it toppled over and rolled 200 feet down and driver was thrown from truck as employee did not have a seatbelt on . accident pending california highway patrol ( chp ) report . not our employee , was a customer .
020-0 mobile mining unit roof fall in the fare of number 1 and number 2 both falls were 8-10 ft . high x width of entry x approximately   30 ft . long . no equipment or people involved . 5 ft . fully grouted resin bolts were installed   in this area .
employee was walking down an embankment to board a work boat for transport to dredge . ground was wet . he slipped and slid down embankment . his right heel wedged between boat and bank . he caught himself   with his right arm and his arm and shoulder hit the bank hard .
miner was loading 6 '' pvc pipe into the back of a plant pick-up truck when his right hand moved over a burr on the pipe . the miner was not wearing gloves and sustained a laceration to his right hand . the miner was treated at knox county hospital where he received a tetanus vaccination and 7 stitches to close the would . he was released to full duty .
employee was using a z drill , roof bolting the top on the longwall face . drill steel got caught in the hole , twisting the drill and pulling employee's body sideways , straining his lower back .
clearing `` gyp ii silo starvation '' by hitting side of silo with hammer . struck finger against electrical conduit .
employee was swinging a steel bar trying to break a nut loose and strained shoulder . on the 28th the doctor returned him to full duty with no restrictions and scheduled an mri . after the mri the doctor reviewed him again and on 5/21/2015 put employee on work restrictions thus this report .
left front tire blew out . it's believed explosion blew oil filter base into starter with a short circuit occurring .
employee slipped and fell on mine floor from conveyor boom of shuttle car .
west mains 58 block number 4 heading , 4-way mobile mining unit 001 . 8 ' high , 20 ' wide , 20 ' long . type support : 6 ' resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off . additional roof supports set around fall
employee was using an air impact to tighten nuts when particle got in eye . reported injury due to continued irritation
rock fall was found during pre-shift examination on the date stated above , the fall was approximately 70 ' long 19 ' wide 2-6 ' thick , located in the number 3 entry on the 3rd main .
employee was stepping off side of service truck , stepped onto piece of coal , foot slipped and broke ankle bone .
employee was dismounting a caterpillar 769c haul truck when his left foot became wedged between the bottom of the bumper and the factory mounted hanging bumper step . right foot slipped off the bottom step . this action caused the employee to lose his balance and 3 points of contact and he then fell to the ground . the doctor immobilized his leg and an mri will be done on 10-4-13 .
climbing out of trailer over a fender , left foot stepped on piece of coal , ankle gave out . tried to catch himself with hand on fender , it slipped and he fell out of trailer landing on ribs/ back   .
employee was splashed with caustic that was entrained in scale . he was removing scale build-up from an angle valve that he was repairing . at that time he was sent to a local hospital for treat ment . burns were only first degree . he went to the plant medical department on 11/21/01 with a severely infected right arm . antibiotics were prescribed . no lost time or work restrictions .
employee stated that he was loading rock dust onto the scoop when he turned with a bag of dust in his arms and hurt his left knee . he continued to work his regular job and consulted a doctor who performed surgery on 3-28-07 to repair cartilage in his knee .
employee was operating a hand tool ( portaband ) to cut pipe . employee was holding hard under the pipe being cut when he cut through the pipe and cut his finger , requiring 7 stitches .
employee had picked up a roll of curtain when he attempted to turn he felt a pull in his lower back . employee went for chiropractic adjustments on 11-20-01 .
employee was operating a diesel scoop on me   travelway . while tramming the scoop the operator inadvertently ran over a 6 ft steel jack laying along the rib . the end of the jack was pushed into the operator's cab , striking the employee .
employee was moving the continuous miner cable out of the haul road with the help of shuttle car operator when he said he felt pain in the back of his left leg . employee continued to work until 9-10-2014 when he said his leg was still bothering him and he sought medical attention at williamson arh hospital where he was diagnosed with a pinched nerve .
employee was using porta power ( jack ) to spread slat conveyor ; block slipped and porta power jumped up and hit employee on the upper lip , cutting upper lip .
while making a belt splice , the employee was striking the belt pin with a hammer and a piece of metal chipped off the hammer , puncturing employee in the leg . employee received a tetanus shot and 2 stitches .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the elk creek mine . 1st west section cross-cut 41 in the number 2 entry . the fall measured 18' wide x 32' long and 9-10 ' high . inby longwall face .
while exiting the mantrip , employee's right shoulder and right knee struck against mantrip .
the employee was welding an i beam the steel i beam was rolled over to access the other side , the beam came loose from a chain and fell , about 2 feet onto his left foot . his left big toe was fractured behind the steel toe in his boot . this resulted in a lost time injury
employee was back dragging road going down to pit area . it was snowing and visibility was low . he backed over a rock while looking over shoulder and in a twisted position . felt pain in lower back .
east 3 , between 46 and 47 block , number 1 entry , mobile mining unit 007 40 ft long x 17 ft wide x 7 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , roof mats fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
a fall of the roof occurred on the 2nd southeast mains , number 1 unit , cross-cut 148 , entry number 2 ( intersection ) . the fall measured approximately 20 ' length , 18'-20 ' width , and 7'-15 ' thick . the fall has been cleaned up according to our approved rehabilitation plan , additional support has been installed in the area , with the fall area being arched .
employee trimming bolter dust hose on 1 east 3 block , 2-3 cross-cut , and needed to change knife blade . while pulling old blade out his hand slipped and ran his left thumb across the blade , resulting in a laceration requiring 5 sutures . gloves worn . no problems with personal protective equipment , mining methods , training or compliance issues .
the injured employee slipped and fell to the ground when stepping out of the vehicle . the injured employee experienced pain in the right knee and was treated at first aid , then transported to the hospital for further evaluation . the injured employee was referred to an orthopedic doctor . an mri was ordered and was read on 12-19. the injured employee was diagnosed with a meniscus tear and will undergo arthroscopic surgery .
installing a wire roof mat - the mat slipped striking the employee in the forehead .
employee was lifting on oversize chute door and he strained a muscle in his back .
employee was pulling tarp on clinker pile , when he felt strain in abdomen . employee had undergone non-work related hernia surgery approximately 1 year prior , of which he received full release to work . upon current incident he went to physician as precautionary measure . physician prescribed restricted duty as precaution .
hearing loss - standard threshold shift of 11 db in right ear .
at approximately 07:45 operator employee while dismounting the cat d9r dozer twisted his right knee . he was taken to the clinic and released to light limited duty until his follow up appointment in a week .
employee stepped from hitch knuckle on car to release and as his hand was on the brake wheel he stepped on uneven asphalt and tried to break his fall and dislocated his left elbow .
the employee got his finger caught between the arm of the plant coal crusher crank and the leveling arm of the crusher . mashed his finger .
employee was sitting in the guard house when he had a coughing spell . the coughing spell caused him to fall out the chair and hit his head on the floor .
driver had removed the 3 side panels from the stake bed delivery truck and leaned them against the opposite side of the truck . a strong gust of wind caused the stacked side panels to fall and strike the driver in the back , causing the driver to fall to the ground from the truck bed . employee broke employee's left arm between the shoulder and elbow and had other minor abrasions .
as injured employee was removing rock accumulated under conveyor table , other nearby 4 '' rock fell striking and bruising the top of his right hand .
6 man crew was planting vegetation in 18 '' of water . worker was bit on left side by an alligator . pre-job inspection showed no alligator presence . spotter in place did not see gators until incident occurred . employee taken to emergency room treated for injury on left hand , significant damage to thumb . also cuts on torso under left arm and abrasions on back and stomach .
employee was doing maintenance on air cannons on k3 tower . employee was using a faceshield however when he looked up he got something in his left eye and had to get prescription eye drops .
employee had just parked the tractor by the ore muck bay . he stepped off of the tractor and his left foot came down on a small rock . he twisted his left ankle .
employee was struck on the cheek by a j hook that had come loose . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
employee was working on magnetic separator drum , changing endcap , when the chain slipped and drum fell and hit his left hand .
fuel truck was being towed into place with a wench and a dozer behind it . the wench dozer developed slack . the truck rolled back against the blade of the dozer . the employee had a mild whiplash .
was pulling electric cords and hanging them in the rack on a bin . thought that is was a pulled muscle . on 8/10 went to doctor and said do physical therapy . on 9/6 was placed on light duty because no progress . on 11/9 reached out of dump truck to shut lime bin off and got pain in shoulder . had mri same day and on 11/10 was diagnosed with left torn rotator cuff . surgery 12/13 .
an employee was walking up the steps to the morenci mine office when he was stung twice in the neck by an insect before the beginning of shift .
the tailgate entry on the 8 left longwall panel became impassable due to a roof fall measuring 10 ' wide , 6' long , 8' high . all employees were removed from the face area and trained on self-contained rescue devices and escape routes . when mining resumed , 2 passes were required to mine past the fall .
on 9-27-2010 employee submitted an accident report claiming that on 4-19-2010 his foot got tangled on banding material stuck under a pallet causing him to trip and fall off a platform and hit a hopper before landing on the floor . accident was reported 23 weeks after the injury . employee went on fmla on 5-12-2010 .
employee was using a hand held grinder to grind metal from a reclaimer bucket . the bucket was resting on the edge of the shop table . it fell from the table and the grinder struck his right hand .
employee was descending from ladder and his foot slid down bottom two rungs and twisted his knee when his foot hit the floor
employee was lying on his back under the primary crusher motor control center drilling with a cordless drill . the drill `` caught '' , causing the drill to spin out of his hands , striking him in the face .
employee's partner , while using the woma spray gun , lost control of it when spraying and gun flew out of his hand striking employee on left elbow .
while removing decking prior to removing standard crusher , employee fell through opening . employee was not at his assigned work station .
employee was preparing to pull longwall shield when a section of roof fell from between shield number 99 and number 100 striking him on the inside of his left ankle , bruising it .
was pulling conveyor chain ( face ) back together with shear when a f-bar broke sending a hook toward the headgate and striking accident victim .
elevator at mcmahon portal when the elevator landed at the top the doors would not open . starting at 12:50 am and were opened at 1:40am . a door fault was found and repaired .
employee was cleaning out grizzly at main plant with pick ; a piece of rock broke off and hit him in the left arm .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st southwest submain in the number 8 entry intake escapeway at cross-cut 9+30 . this was in a slip area . the fall measured 30 ' x 30 ' x 8 ' . some 9 ' cable bolts were in the intersection , but were pulled out or came out with the rock . visible slips and wet soft bottoms that is present will require more support , such as cribs , timbers and prop-setters .
employee states that after working a shift , that included changing take-up rolls , his back began to hurt . employee did not notice any specific incident that caused an injury . his back did not begin to hurt   until after the employee had been home for several hours .
a small area of smoldering coal was discovered on the back side of the primary coal pile . the smoldering coal was dug out and extinguished by 9:23 am the same day .
tightening valve on saddle , felt a eye irritation with left eye , took off glasses and gloves rubbed eye , washed out eye and went back to work . woke up next morning 8/7/07 with swollen upper left eye lid . reported injury to foreman on 8/7/07 .
employee says he was digging a stuck boulder in muck pile . the loader bucket popped over the top of it when he curled it back causing loader to lurch forward hitting muck pile jarring employee . this caused a pain in his lower back and legs . mri on 6/19/13 shows 2 herniated discs . evaluation of injury and surgeons is taking place . lost time status effective 6/24/2013 .
employee was cleaning out chute of the c 0 3 belt line while doing that his back froze up and started to hurt
owner of j &amp; p equipment cleaning was working on a steam cleaning engine when one of his employees noticed that he was slumped over the engine . this is still under investigation by mine safety and health administration .
employee alleges while at work doing her normal work activities , running scalehouse for the quarry she started having pain in her right arm and shoulder .
employee exiting manlift ; door came down and struck his back .
as employee crawled out of the moly cells , he looked up to get out and a piece of grating used to block the ladder swung and the corner hit him on the lip .
employee was traveling in mill building elevator when it stopped at 1:40am and would not move . employee was extracted from mill elevator at 3:20am . thyssen krupp elevator technician determined fault to be caused by blown fuse .
employee was chocking wheels of a radial stacker conveyor belt with a 1 ' x 1 ' x 3 ' wood chock to prevent movement of the conveyor belt . while lifting and placing chock , employee crushed left index finger be tween chock and conveyor frame .
as the employee was descending a ladder , his foot missed the last rung , causing pain to his left knee . became aware of medical treatment 5-18-05 .
operator was traveling inby on a brookville locomotive with two full cars . the track switch at 36 wall on the east mains haulage had been left for the curve causing the trip to enter the switch . the motorman was unable to stop the trip and struck his head on an 8 '' plastic water line that runs parallel to the main line haulage .
salaried parts runner was moving two hydraulic pumps on a two wheeled hand cart with another employee . employee planted his left leg to push pumps up onto cart and felt his left knee rip and tear . torn medial meniscus ( left knee )
1st right section during the installation and movement of a 6 '' water line employee stated he felt pain in his left lower back , later claimed during the shift pain developed in his left leg as well
worker was standing on the 4th step of an 8 foot step ladder . he was moving some bars in a grizzly and hit his thumb with a 4 lb sledge hammer . he lost his balance and he fell and landed on his left elbow and the left side of his face . the fall resulted in a broken elbow and a fracture in the bone under his eye .
hanson was notified that employee was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome , which the physician determined it was probably work related .
unintentional roof fall . 6-north - cross-cut between number 5 and number 6 entry , at number 34 intersection off the conveyor belt entry . fall approximately 16 ' long , 15 ' wide and up to 4'-5 ' high ( above the 4 ' roof bolts ) . area began falling out around bolts on february 2 , 2005 but now became reportable on 2-18-05. no passage or ventilation affected .
employee was taking roller off of rope line , it slipped out of his hands . he caught roller with left hand , straining shoulder . he has had trouble with shoulder before . doctor diagnosis : shoulder impingement due to repetitive trauma . mri showed no clinical relevance , no tear only impingement . turned in late due to lateness of mri report and doctor diagnosis   - received 4-17-00 .
the east finley elevator was down for more than 30 minutes with people on the elevator . there was no damage to the elevator . the elevator outage was caused by the limit switch for the governor rope - had tripped because the new rope had stretched .
employee picked up 5 gallon pail - it slipped out of his hand , dropping on left instep .
employee was riding in a manbus on west track , the manbus ran into a parked shield car resulting in a fracture to his mid left finger .
the miner was stepping down from the back of a mobile mining unit bulk truck # 126. his foot slipped off the icc bumper and fell to ground . the miner tried to cushion his fall by reaching with his right hand and broke his wrist .
a roof fall measuring 6 ' high 30 ' long and 20 ' wide fell in the return neutral 13 breaks out by the company number 4 head drive . the roof was laminated shale with multiple mountain seams . no injuries to men   or machine occurred .
employee jumped down from his loader and twisted his ankle .
employee was moving concrete tank out of building when he alleges he strained his groin while pushing against the tank . began missing work on 1/8/03 .
steam caused from hot pellets hitting water contacted employee face and resulted in 1st and 2nd degree burns .
a roof fall occurred in the south sub main , number 8 entry , number 11 cross-cut , 730 ' station . the fall was approximately 25 ' long , 25 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall did not affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage to equipment .
when drilling , the driller needs to lift drill rods an place on drill mast to add length , when driller was doing this he felt what he thought was a muscle `` tweak '' . this feeling did not improve , went to doctor and found out he had a hernia .
while the employee was dismounting a haul truck he lost his footing and slipped off the truck running his hand along the handrail and getting his right lower palm caught on a bolt resulting in a laceration to the lower section of the right palm .
employee was moving slusher bucket . he slipped and fell , his right hand was caught between rib and bucket . the bucket smashed his finger right ring finger .
employee was walking under a lead rougher cell , when he straightened up he hit his hard hat on a piece of angle iron . the jolt hurt his back . he left work on the 9th of october on rest and recuperation went to   a doctor and didn't come back to work on october 17th .
the employee was hanging pipe with a chain . the pipe slipped off the forks of the forklift and pinched his finger between the pipe and the chain .
employee was removing the discharge line from a pump . when the victaulic coupling was removed scalding water sprayed on his hands causing second degree burns .
employee was in the process of mapping a blast against backfill in the 1-49545. employee checking drill holes and he got dust particles in his right   eye .
employee was attempting to climb out of a 582 scoop in number 46 wall cross-cut e-14 section . he bumped against loose coal/rock rib causing it to fall and strike him on the upper back and neck .
employee was walking down sidehill and slipped twisting her ankle .
employee ( number 2 car driver ) was operating a shuttle car . the car became stuck on the feeder . his coworker number 1 car driver was also stuck . the number 1 car driver got on the 488 scoop and began to clean the loo m coal from the dumping point . not realizing that there were an oxygen and acetylene tank in the scoop bucket , he pushed them into the feeder . the acetylene tank exploded .
hoist down from 11:30 am to 4:30 pm . coil in main contactor and surge suppressor burnt . repaired approximately 5:00 pm . hoist down second time from 6:15 to 4:30 am in coil in main rectifier . no injuries reported as a result of this hoist being down .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at survey station 8022 , 50 and 38 cross out of number 2 entry return of west mains . the fall had no effects on ventilation the area was dangered off and supported   at all approaches .
the mech was welding a plate on the rear of a haul truck . another employee was taping the plate into place when the hammer slipped striking the top of the mechanic's head . the mech finished the shift   with little complaint . that evening he decided to seek medical attention . the result was a slight concussion . employee was off 8/6/02 and returned 8/7/02 .
while stringing out new electrical cables between the ccd motor control center and the sulphate plant , employee stepped on a loose rock and twisted his ankle .
employee was using a prybar to move a heavy object when the prybar slipped and pinched his right thumb against a concrete wall directly behind him .
employee was using a rail pick to clean out ballast from between ties under the rail to remove the tie plate . while doing so the employee accidentally hit the rail with pick causing it to chip and a piece of the pick entered the employee's left cheek just under the skin .
unplanned brush fire , lasting longer than 30 mins , ignited by overhead power line .
employee stated that he was operating number   23 scoop with the float lever in the locked position . he stated that the float lever , which is spring loaded , popped out of the locked position catching the index , middle and ring fingers of his right hand between the float lever and the steering lever .
employee was splitting a slab of sandstone using a 4 lb . hammer and stone chisel when he inadvertently missed the chisel head and struck his left thumb causing a contusion to his thumb . employee was assigned a modified work activity for 3 days then returned to regular job .
during weekly examination a roof fall was found at break . 44 along the 4 north intake at ss # 12626. the roof fall measured 90 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7-25 ' high . there were no injuries or property damage reported . the fall occurred 4500 ' outby the working section .
employee was tightening the hammer valve when the valve went loose thrusting employee forward smashing her finger in between bar and cement line
employee was riding in the back of a mantrip on 59w ramp going to 61w . the road was rought and he was bounced around he strained left shoulder he returned to to work light duty for 1 day
the employee states he was carrying a battery ( 45-50 lbs . ) and stumbled , losing the grip in his right hand and caught the full weight with his left hand causing a sprained left shoulder .
this employee felt some discomfort to his left knee . he went to see the doctor and the doctor put him on some anti-inflammatories and tylenol ; no light duty needed . this employee had surgery done on 6/21/07 to his knee but he has been on vacation since . this employee has had this time scheduled off since the first of the year . he has come back to work on light duty as of 7-2-07 .
employee was attempting to walk around a puddle of water that had come through the roof and accumulated on the floor , employee slipped on a wet spot that had become slick with lime . employee right knee buckled and twisted . employee requested medical treatment on 6/28/18 .
employee stated was moving a 55 gallon barrel of oil by hand when employee felt something pop in right shoulder . employee stated did not want medical attention , just wanted to document the incident .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the 1n longwall recovery face shield number 119 to shield # 125/1141 ' north . the fall was approximately 30 ' long 5 ' wide and approximately 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will be cleaned up .
employee was positioning screen cloth on a jci 6 x 20 screen and twisted / strained his back .
employee was loading bolts , plates glue and straps onto the back of a roof bolter when his left hand struck the sharp edge of a strap , causing a laceration that required 4 stitches .
employee was using a pry bar to put linkage in a shaft on a coal drill , while pulling on prybar , it slipped and struck on the under side of his chin . received a laceration on chin which required nine   stitches to close .
driving the water truck around while watering and cleaning . drove over a bumpy area that caused employee to bounce out of the seat injuring his lower back .
employee was pulling a wrench when strained shoulder . employee completed shift . employee did not report , but put on time slip that employee strained shoulder . went back to work on monday 7-18-6. was changing screens when employee again felt strain . reported injury on 7-20-16 when employee went to chiropractor .
employee was standing beside the continuous miner . as he went to move , he slipped on a piece of rock , falling backwards and to the right , landing on his right shoulder .
employee barring down with scaling bar and bruised right hand .
mechanic was assisting the bobcat operator in removing the bucket . after the pins were released and the operator started to back away , he accidentally moved the control the wrong way causing the edge of the bucket to lift . the mechanic was still too close and the bucket edge struck his left leg .
bending steel rebar when the wrench slipped and struck him in the mouth .
injured employee was putting the track tension cylinder back on the machine along with the track hoe operation . a chain was used to lower the cylinder in place . the chain was connected to the track hoe bucket . the injured employee had his left hand lying on the cylinder . his hand was caught between the bucket and cylinder .
employee was diagnosed with a `` degenerative right   knee meniscus tear '' which is work related .
the employee was re-hooking a basket on a cement loading spout . the employee stated that while doing so , he experienced pain in his left chest area .
employee was descending ladder on classifier when he twisted body , causing strain of left shoulder .
the employee and 4 other employee's were positioning a piece of metal to be welded onto the conveyor belt tailpiece dump box . the metal slipped and caught the employee's finger between the metal and the tail piece frame . this resulted in a laceration which required sutures .
employee was using a long bar to push build-up off the burner pipe , pipe slipped injuring his lower back .
employee diagnosed with occupational carpal tunnel syndrome on 10.5.16. treatment is pending at this time .
on the above date , employee was working on the company 610 scoop checking permissibility . he had finished adjusting the brakes and was putting the shield back on . as he pulled the shield , he felt a sharp pain in his lower abdomen . he went to the doctor on monday and was diagnosed with a hernia .
employee was carrying a piece of plate and stepped through a hole .
employee was walking on crusted snow when his leg fell through the crust and he hyperextended his knee .
while loading cinder block into the scoop bucket at the end of the track on the 012-0 mobile mining unit employee felt a sudden pain in his lower back . he worked until 8/27 ; he returned 8/30 missing 3 days work .
employee was using a hammer to chip a stone . right arm became sore from the repetitive motion . diagnosed with right arm tendonitis . employee did not seek medical treatment until 6/8/04 .
employee works as a scoop/utility man . he was loading supplies and was lifting a bundles of roof bolt resin off of a pallet and loading it into the scoop bucket and felt a strain in his lower abdomen . he repetitively is lifting and carrying material every day . he was taken off work 04/08/2008 for a hernia .
repairing a metal stopping between number 1 and number 2 entry at 36 cross-cut on longwall 60 and the roof behind the longwall shields . this was the first fall of a new face and the gust of air created caused the metal stopping to fall , knocking the metal stopping over . injured was knocked into a pumpable crib and sustained a concussion and cervical strain .
employee walking from the gyp shack to ball sorting area , slipped on the ice covering the ground and twisted right knee . ground has been covered with ice for some time .
was pulling a hydraulic line of a 980 g cat loader . the line was under pressure . when the line came off , the fluid came out and lacerated lip . the line was going to brake accumulator . machine was off . the brake pedal should have been pumped to bleed pressure .
employee was using bloomfield jack . his hand slipped off handle . jack struck him in right jaw . employee did not go to doctor informed office 4/17/00 of appointment   at dentist on 4-20-00 .
employee states he was lifting trash can ( +50 # ) and felt pain in back . ( has history of back pain ) he went to clinic on 7-6-04 and was given prescription medicine and placed on modified duty .
workers were moving a floatation pontoon with a trackhoe and as they were setting it down the employee grabbed it to steady the position . the pontoon swung and bumped him on the shin of his right leg causing a contusion .
employee was coming down a ladder off the plant - was on the bottom step and his foot slipped on a rock and his knee hit a piece of steel on plant .
employee was stacking 6 '' hollow concrete blocks , employee turned with a block in his hand when he suddenly felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee was welding in the bed of a grout truck box when he was flashed from the automatic track welder , causing flash burns to both eyes . he saw doctor on 5-7-03 , then told his supervisor about it later   . doctor said he could with no restrictions beginning 5-12-03 .
as employee was dismounting from the dozer in the rain . his foot slipped on the tracks causing him to fall . his left leg became lodged between the track-rail and the blade pusharm . his momentum carried   him over the side of the pusharm . his leg supported his weight , breaking the fall but caused the knee to be twisted , causing the injury . he was taken to employee's     family .
the employee was using a band saw to cut a steel   h   beam . when the employee approached to move the completed piece it fell on his right foot , resulting in a contusion to the top of the right foot .
kiln gk3 pushed due to lack of fuel to calciner . drive belt for calciner coal feeder broke at 4:15 am . control room operator received an alarm for coal feeder speed 40 sec after the belt broke . lack of fuel caused kiln to push ( rush hot feed through kiln ) and hot material went to the clinker conveyor system . diverter gate was opened too late to avoid burning belts .
on 10/15 employee notified of leaving emergency room and due to sciatica . after having pain on 10/15 while outside of work employee believes it is related to near miss on 10/11 . no previous indication of any injury or pain leads workers compensation to investigate , but no determination made yet . interim report is filed to meet 10 working day req until determination made .
maintainer   was rebuilding tornado crushed , while replacing the breaker rings employee sprained his wrist .
an excavator operator was cleaning out and sump when the tooth of the bucket ruptured the pipeline . the excavator was out off and the gas company was immediately ratified . this accident occurred off of mine and permitted property .
employee were working on number 13 ball mill installing shell liners . he was crawling through the discharge trunnion to enter the mill when dirt came from over head into his left eye . flushed eyes and went home for night . employee fell asleep . when he woke up he felt irritation . went to urgent care and physician stated debris was in eye . physician wanted employee to take night off .
while loading water line couplers he had his right hand on top of crate when a metal fire valve rolled off top shelf , smashing middle finger . stitches
employee was operating a scoop recovering belt materials , scoop became entangled with the life line and employee did not see that it was caught . he moved forward until the rope stretched so tight it broke sending a cone flying and striking him on the left shoulder . employee started losing time on 8/4/08 .
shuttlecar cable struck employee on the leg . medical treatment injury
employee was sliding metal platforms into a bucket of a loader , when sliding the second one in , it caught and twisted backward causing the finger to get pinched between the platforms . he received sutures to his finger .
miner struck in left index finger by flying debris
employee was loading trucks with rock and was returning to pile to reload bucket when a tooth on bucket caught a large rock causing the loader to stop hard . this in return jarred his back .
when employee finished hammering the spad up , a rock fell and hit employee on the bridge of the nose . employee stopped and checked the roof . then he hung the plum bob . while he was shining his light on the line another rock fell down and hit employee on back of hard hat . he then ran 25 ' or so and looked back and checked the roof .
employee cut finger while changing motor on shuttle car .
at 7:30 am during pre-shift examination a rock fall was found on number 3 belt line . at spad number 852 the fall measured 6 ft thick by 18 ft wide by 80 ft long .
employee diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome on 8.22.16. treatment is pending
employee was dragging line curtain back out of place to hang up on rib to keep curtain out of the way . he had put one end of the curtain on rib , when he went to step over curtain laying on the floor he over extended his right leg and he turned his right ankle . the injury was diagnosed as a strain and later a possible fracture .
while shoveling material from under the conveyor the employee stated that the shovel came into contact with a return roller and subsequently the employee came into contact with the same roller .
employee was welding on a chute at the plant a hot piece of slag went into his boot and lodged below his ankle causing a burn .
the illness was reported to this office on 4-28. the employee stated she first noticed the pain on 3-27 on her left side . she states she had so much pain on her left side she found it very difficult   to grasp items . the pain lessened with less use . she went to the doctor for treatment , thinking she had pulled a muscle . the doctor informed her she had carpal tunnel in her right hand causing
plant operator was clearing the grizzly bars one foot slipped between and banged his knee . he continued work for the day . he informed management of his injury on 1/8/09 . doctor determined it was probably a sprain . he did physical therapy was told by doctor that his planned vacation would be sufficient recuperation . after vac . he started to miss work . possible surgery required
piece of rock slid off miner , hitting employee on right side of leg .
the employee was rockdusting an entry with a power duster . he rockdusted the roof and a piece of stone fell out of the roof striking his hand .
setting impact idler , caught finger between impact idler and structural steel brace . fracture to right ring finger . required sutures
employee was moving a large piece of stone into position to be split . the stone slipped from his grasp and struck his left leg 3 inches below his knee causing a laceration . he received several stitches and returned to full work capacity on 7/16/07 .
while cleaning the screen box for tank 65 , employee felt something burning on his foot . he completed the task and reported to medical where he was diagnosed with a chemical burn and was given first aid treatment . he was later given a topical antibiotic prescription medication which makes this a medical treatment case .
employee on number 1 belt was working with another employee , the victim was in a pinch point area and was struck by battery operated 4-wheeler , pinning employee against rib and mantrip .
employee removing bit from hammer while hanging from jib about 1 foot from ground . employee was turning bit off of hammer when the bit let go and wedged employee finger between bit and ground .
employee was installing new monogoggle sign in the area . as he hit the sign with the hammer , it popped off and hit employee on the forehead .
employee working in calciner unit operating a cordless circular saw to build wooden forms in preparation for guniting . as he was making a miter cut on 3/4 '' piece of plywood @ 2 '' x8 '' long , the saw blade came in contact with left index finger cutting the tip off .
the heavy equipment operator ( heavy equipment operator ) was attempting to lift a dragline trail cable off the hooks on dragline 79 when he felt a sharp pain in his right bicep .
employee complained of right shoulder pain and was sent for an mri which revealed chronic degenerative changes of the glenoid labrum and stable degenerative tear inferior glenoid labrum . this is being reported as an occupational illness due to repeated trauma . employee was off work 08/19/2013 for same condition .
windborne debris caused minor irritation to the right eye during land clearing operations which resulted in medical treatment and a prescription for eye drops to be issued .
employee was cleaning the reservior pumphouse . he was moving 2 gallon buckets partially filled with stone . after moving 3rd bucket , he experienced intense abdominal pain . had coworker contact supervisor .
employee was lifting rocks out of a jaw crusher and strained his back . worker treated at his chiropractor . crusher did not work on 12/3/13 and 12/4/13 because of a snow storm .
employee has been diagnosed with occupational pneumoconiosis
the fall of ground occurred at approximately 12:30 pm in the 3920 sfw travel way area . the ground fall was approximately 6 ' in width 5 ' in length and 3 ' in depth . the drift is approximately 15 ' wide by 15 ' thick . it was determined that some roof bolts in the area had corroded over time and gave way . there were no injuries , equipment damage , change in ventilation , or entrapment .
a roof fall occurred 2 breaks inby spad 184 in the number 6 and and entry . the fall in number 6 is 80 foot long 14 feet wide and 8 feet thick . the fall in number 7 is 100 feet long , 20 ft wide and 9 ft thick .
employee was carrying a hydraulic pump in the tool room when he felt a pain in his lower back .
employee was chiseling a piece of tock when a metal piece from the chisel broke off into employee's leg .
employee hit elbow against bit tray on roof bolter . he has been taken off work for therapy for the tendon in his right elbow . employee started missing work 8/10/04 .
employee was drilling a raise round with stoper drill and had drilled all of round except for 3 holes when rock fell out of back striking him in right shin bone . he was taken to hospital and x-rayed and released back to full work status .
employee was hooking air compressor to back of pickup truck ; strained lower back and right leg while lifting compressor .
injured employee stated that while walking down the travelway of the 1st main west they stepped in some dust that had a rock underneath causing them to roll an ankle . employee was diagnosed with a sprained ankle . employee was instructed to follow up with the doctor on 11/13/17 . employee attended the follow up examination and was placed in a walking boot and taken off work at that time .
after opening and closing some valves employee felt a throbbing pain in his left shoulder . employee placed on restricted duty .
employee has bilateral cts . first shift missed-7-18-01 .
employee driving a 773b rock truck . while the truck was being loaded with stone , the trackhoe bucket and stone jarred the truck , causing employee to experience neck and shoulder pain .
an unplanned roof fall has occurred on number 2 section 50 ' inby number 1409 in the left return 1 break . outby feeder . fall was approximately   120 ' long x 19 ' wide x 9 ' high , no injuries and the fall did not affect ventilation or travel ways
report filed to abate 9087305. bits of 12cm11 miner hit an old eba 6.5 ( 1981 ) while cleaning between third and fourth cross-cut at 235 block at rehabilitation area . resulted in sudden release of pressure when cylinder ruptured . there was no charring or residue on the miner or in the entry to indicate ignition occurred . after investigating , mine safety and health administration and the operator agreed it was not an ignition .
north mains , face area : the employee was installing a roof bolt in a high top area and a rock ( ~3 ' x 2 ' x 2 '' thick ) fell without warning and struck his head . he finished his shift and the next morning   decided that an examination by a physician was needed .
while pulling open kiln hood employee was struck when a chain come-along popped loose and struck employee in the abdomen .
employee was using a sledge hammer to chip frozen material from a mud bin . employee stated that he had lower back pain at the end of his shift .
employee was clearing a cardox port with a pipe and a hammer . as the employee struck the end of the pipe with his left hand , his right hand was caught in a pinch point between the pipe and the cardox collar . as a result , his right index finger suffered a laceration which required 8 stitches .
an employee and a contractor were welding inside a crusher . after the shift , the employee noticed that his eyes were stinging . his eyes were flash burned by the exposure to the other welder's     arc .
while folding forks on backhoe one came unpinned and caught employee's left middle finger between fork and concrete shop floor . this caused a cut in finger which required 5 stitches .
report only , minor bruising to right shoulder occurred due to a fall . employee returned to full duty without restrictions . employee was taken to the hospital as a precaution . the employee fell while walking on a loader tire , instead of using the equipment ladder .
a roof fall in the 2 main north cross-cut number 16 in number 7 entry measuring 50 ' x 19' x 6 ' . the area was mined in october of 2000 and supported with 6 ' tension rebar roof bolts . there was an undetected slip .
as employee was loading cutter blades , he received a laceration to right index finger .
while hanging miner cable felt pain in back . employee did not loose any wages until 2-18-02 .
jackhammering in gypsum area hole and slipped on a board trying to avoid cement debris . there were   fine clinkers on the board causing the slide .
employee stated that he was removing a grease fitting on an eimco continuous miner when the fitting broke free striking the left lens of his safety glasses . he received a laceration around his left eye requiring stitches and a scratched cornea .
an unintentional was discovered on grassy creek mains - number 8 entry at spad 10513. fall dimensions are approximately 18 ' wide x 20' long x 7' high . there were no injuries associated with this incident   .
while stepping off of a ladder employee stepped onto a small rock that was at the base of loose material on the ground causing employee's foot to roll . first aid was provided at the scene and employee was taken for follow up medical evaluation .
employee was starting a compressor using the pull-rope . the compressor pulled back in stroke mode while the employee was holding the pull-rope causing his hand to strike the compressor , which resulted in an   injury to his right ring finger . the compressor is on the lubrication truck .
employee was using the burner on a piece of curbing . the regulator for the fuel oil came loose , employee attempted to fit it , and the torch slipped across his hand .
employee was using a pen knife to cut nylon draw bands , pulling the knife towards him as he cut through the band . the force drove the knife into his thumb cutting his tendon , surgery scheduled on 6-1-0 1 .
employee stated , was roof bolting in 5r cross-cut when struck by loose rock which fell during the bolting cycle . rock impacted personal canopy and then pushed employee to ground . employee was transported to surface by emergency medical technicians and taken to rochester general hospital emergency room . employee was treated and released but returned to doctor 2 days later and is away from work until 6-3-16
employee was operating a roof bolter , they had just finished pinning a place and backed the bolter out he removed his hard hat to wipe off sweat off his head when a small piece of top coal fell causing   small laceration to his head . he received 2 stitches .
employee was pulling a fuel hose out to fuel the rock crusher , when he sprained the middle of his back .
a roof fall was found at cross-cut number 47 in the number 4 entry of south mains a. the fall was approximately   30 feet long , 18 feet wide , and 9 feet high . area was bolted with install iii bolts resin assisted . the area was screened and we used bacon straps . fell above anchorage point . this area is not normally traveled .
employee suffered heart failure due to natural causes . investigation showed no exertion prior to the event . employee was discussing project assignments with other crew members when collapse occurred . no tools or equipment were in use at the time of the collapse . the employee did not survive .
injured was walking around a diesel mantrip doing a pre-operational inspection and slipped on a piece of coal . he fell and landed on his right hand fracturing it .
working on housekeeping in the east zeno pit with a shovel when a object on the floor was struck and he jammed his wrist .
employee was hammering a bolt on a gear box at the rewash plant , a piece of the hammer broke off and hit him in the chin , he thought he just cut it and put a band-aid on it . 9-10-08 he reported to another employee ( spanish ) so he could interpret . employee can feel something in his chin and a magnet can pull on the embedded object .
the employee claims he struck his head against something while assisting coworkers install discharge line . upon investigation by mine management it was determined no work related injury occurred and compensation benefits denied . please refer to the attached letter .
employee was roof bolting in 8 right entry and was putting the last outside bolt in . he just had struck the steel in the pot and a rock fell striking his right hand .
employee placed his right hand on the tailgate to bend over to see what was keeping the tailgate from closing . at this time , the tailgate closed , smashing his right middle finger causing a laceration that required suturing .
employee slipped and fell from a service truck as employee was unloading wear strips for a dozer blade . employee suffered a laceration to left hand that required stitches .
approximately 1:05 pm smoke was noticed in an area not yet mined . upon investigation it was found to be a brush fire of unknown origin . 911 was called so fire department persons could respond to extinguish the fire . the west virginia department of forestry also responded . the incident remains under investigation . the mine safety and health administration hotline was used .
35' long x 19 ' wide x 7 ' high fall on number 2 section number 5 entry near spad 2805. joy 14cm inner covered . fall on idle shift . agencies notified .
employee riding on back seat of mantrip . jacket hood caught on belt guard at underpass . employee was pulled off slow moving mantrip . went to emergency room , returned to work with no restrictions . saw doctor on april 20 complaining of tingling in left hip and moderate shoulder pain . taken off work on 4-20-2011 , presently scheduled for an mri .
employee was using cable spooler to reclaim matrix coaxial cable . he was leveling the cable as it was being spooled on the reel . when the cable reached the coupling it pulled the cable out of his hand and through the reel striking him on the right hand , fracturing his small finger .
employee was welding on a discharge chute of a conveyor at night the wind was blowing . he felt something in his eye but feeling went away . he was wearing safety glasses . he was taken to eye clinic after he came to work next day complaining of pain . a piece of metal was removed from surface of left eye . no lost time was incurred .
pushing dents out of a cyclone ( cone shaped ) with a port-a-power , the port-a-power came loose and hit employee in the mouth .
east 1 right , block 7 entry 11 3-way , mobile mining unit 007 , worked out area . 20 ft long x 18 ft wide x 10 ft high . type of support : cable bolts , 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional   roof support installed around fall .
electrical failure causing ignition of combustible material . fire damage to cab and rear engine compartment areas . total fire time 60 mins .
alleges he may have hurt his lower back while removing rock from conveyor belt . reported 9/29/03 he was shoveling in his driveway on 9/28/03 when he felt pain in his lower back and sought medical   help .
a roof fall has occurred in the number 7 entry 50 ' outby the face at spad 9792. area of fall 60 ' x 19 ' x 35 '' - 50 '' . type support 42 '' resin bolts .
at approximately 8:55am , the schindler elevator became inoperable . the variable-frequency drive was indicating a low line power fault . a loose connection was found on the drive transformer and was repaired . the elevator was back in operation around 2pm .
employee stated that while carrying a section of steel roof mesh he stepped on a `` chunk '' and jarred his back .
employee was refueling grader , when he was climbing down his foot slipped off step and he was tangled in hose causing him to fall backwards onto ground landing on his right hip , then to right shoulder .
employee was driving off road truck and backed under the backhoe bucket to get loaded he did not stop when the backhoe operator blew the horn and the backhoe operator had to stop the truck with the bucket . he said this made his back hurt .
as he was walking through the number 36 cross-cut on the longwall belt , he slipped in a tire track and felt pain in his right   knee . he continued to work until 3/27/06 , at this time he was diagnosed with a torn ligament .
the employee ( miner ) was loading prill into face round with a prill pot . walking toward the prill pot and weld on top of prill pot came loose and blew prill into his face , a lot of prill .
employee was installing huck bolts under a screen and coal dust entered his eye under safety glasses .
employee was located 5 break inby 3a head trimming clips from a flexco splice in the section conveyor belt , using a utility ( razor ) knife , when the knife slipped striking his right hand between the thumb and index finger resulting sin a laceration requiring 3 sutures . degree 3 class 10
injured was with crew loading belt structure into scoop bucket . when employee twisted his body his foot remained stuck in approximately   8 '' of mud , twisting his left knee .
while attempting to assist the loading of 4 x 8 doka forms the employee placed his hand near the form to free it . his finger was pinched between the two forms and required sutures .
employee called me at 7:40am and reported to me that he came into work at the quarry at 6:30am . he stated that he began cranking the water pump and , immediately , pain shot into the lower left side of his back . employee went to see doctor at 3:30pm on the same days of his injury .
at approximately 2:15 am the tail gate travelway of the longwall was observed to be impassable by roof screens that were filled with rock from the immediate roof and some of the rock from the immediate roof had fallen on the mine floor . the area involved was approximately 60 feet long . this is a tail gate closure .
employee stated while loosening packing gland on shuttle car , during repair , struck hand against sharp metal .
while assisting the mechanic , employee was manually turning the drum on the 88b dragline so the mechanic could check the linings and he said he felt a pop in his right shoulder and arm area .
employee and coworker were bolting in the 2nd cut of the number 4 entry . the power on the roof bolter went off and employee walked to the power center to reset the breaker . upon returning to the roof bolter employee stopped at the offside dust box and removed his gloves to clean his glasses . at this point he was struck by a piece of draw rock on his unprotected hand . he sustained a fracture to ring finger
alleged incident was to have occurred while this employee was handling 5-gallon oil cans , he claims to have heard a `` pop '' in his right shoulder . cause if injury if occurred was overexertion . compliance with rules/regulations was not a factor , protective equip not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor
employee was under an auger on yhe deck of a low boy preparing for transportation . he hard hat fell off . when bending down and retrieving the hard hat . he turned slightly while coming back up and bumped   his head causing a 1 inch laceration . he was transported to hospital where the doctor glued the cut together .
injured employee accidentally turned on portable grinder and his left thumb came in contact with the turning grinding disc .
employee was putting the belly pan back on the miner when the lifting eye broke off letting the belly pan drop approximately   16 '' landing on the employees legs .
unintentional roof fall at spad number 1291 . 20 ' ( long ) x 20 ' ( wide ) x 5 ' ( high ) .
a roof fall occurred in the hiawatha seam at cross cut number 16 in the number 3 entry . the fall is about 5' high , 18' wide , and 10 ' long
this employee was on the bottom of the quarry and asked for an oil can . an employee from the top line dropped a can . the employee catching it hit a rough edge on the can and cut the tip of his thumb . employee was given first aid on ledge but requested to go to the doctor on 4/16/04 after he super glued the cut . follow up appointment . is on 04/27/04
employee was taking grease fitting out of adjustment cylinder for tailpulley and pressure in cylinder shot grease fitting into his left hand between index and middle finger causing puncture wound .
the employee was taking hoses off the monorail on the old longwall when he felt lower back pain .
employee slipped and fell on icy walkway , fell and twisted his knee .
employee stated while roof bolting he was removing steel from the roof . his shoulder which had been bothering him started hurting more intensely . he continued to work till 9-30-2009 when he was taken off work by his doctor . mri was perform on shoulder which showed tendinopathy ( tendinitis ) , which is tendon inflammation . inflammation - illness .
employee sprained his back while reaching to catch himself after losing his balance when debris entered his face and underneath his safety glasses . this happened while using a pressure washer to clean a 988f cat loader .
a mill operator suffered for heat exhaustion . he was in process of opening a water treatment valve when symptoms occurred . the employee reported to the onsite physician assistant where he was rehydrated intravenously . he was sent offsite for further medical evaluation .
employee was trying to remove grizzly bar from stacker belt . turned on magnet to help lift from belt . two middle fingers got caught between magnet and bar . employee was wearing gloves but tip of middle finger was amputated and finger was broken .
left ankle turned under stepping down from hammermill loading step , felt something `` snap '' . next morning ankle was swollen and painful - sought medical attention at that time .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee .
employee was digging in a brick pile removing brick and a brick was hung up and when it broke loose he blocked it with his arm to keep it from hitting his head and caused abrasion on his arm .
employee was helping move a skid of roof bolt plates off a bundle of roof bolts . the skid rolled causing a laceration by the steel banding .
employee was using a 4 ' pry bar to move toe plate into place to be welded . the pry bar slipped off the piece of channel and struck the grating the man was standing on . the blow dislodged the g rating causing the man to fall . the employee sustained bruising to his liver and spleen , fractures to both shoulder , pelvis and tail bone .
during morning hoist inspection it was noted that the hoist would not respond to control commands . investigation indicated that the computer that controls the hoist had stopped communicating with the hoist . the computer was rebooted and reconfigured , the hoist re-activated , checked and returned to service by 6:04am .
on 8/16/06 , the injured miner was shoveling mud and rock beside the jaw crusher when the shovel struck a rock covered by mud . the impact of the shovel on the rock twisted his right wrist . the injured miner notified his supervisor on 8/23/06 , notified the company safety director on 8/25/06 , and submitted his injury report form to the company safety director on 8/28/06 .
employee was helping put a track on d11 dozer and had a pry bar holding roller bogie . dozer bogie dropped , pinning employee's right hand to ground by bar . this fractured employee's right little finger and tore fingernail off of right ring finger .
the employee was setting up cable rigging with 1 '' cable and attaching a 1 1/4 '' shackle . the weight of the cable rigging caused a pain in the lower back of the employee when he stood up .
employee was replacing bearings and shim plates in a 3 '' crusher . as employee reached for a plate , the stack shifted and while trying to catch it , employee hand was caught between plate and crusher frame . employee received a laceration to left hand requiring 10 stitches
the mechanic was placing a block under the service truck for repairs . as employee placed the block employee felt a pain in back . employee was seen by a doctor and released with no restrictions . on 10/21/2016 the employee went to the emergency room and was placed on work restrictions that could not be accommodated .
while doing maintenance work on the secondary impact crusher equip . id # p-035 employee was attempting to manually roll hammers from a svedala s250dc crusher into the bucket of a skid steer to take to the scrap dumpster when he caused injury to his right shoulder .
employee was scaling rock when a rock fell striking him on the head and shoulder causing a fractured collar bone and a possible compression fracture .
was feeling faint so i stopped at the bottom of the hill and set my parking brake . i looked up and everything ( color wise ) went real dim the turned black . next thing i know coworker is asking me   if i was ok. i was in and out until i was sitting in the chair in the office .
employee was shoveling around stacker tail roller , when a loose piece of rock bounced off belt striking employee on the left side of the face and forehead .
employee was attempting to remove the keeper pin on a d-8 cat blade with a 2 pound sledge hammer and a punch . as employee swung the hammer , it glanced off of the punch , hitting employee in the left hand between the thumb and pointer finger . employee sought medical help on 4/13/16 , but there were no fractures . employee returned to the doctor on 4/18/16 and was placed on light duty .
employee stated that he was loading supplies on the railrunner outside the mine . when he bent to pick up a box he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee bent over to help pick up a pump but did not grasp it when he felt pain in his back . employee has missed work previously with back problems throughout his mining career .
employee was installing a hand rail . cut a piece of steel with a torch and accidentally leaned against it resulting in 2nd degree burn to right chest area
employee was fixing a flat on rear truck tire 1000-r20 when airing tire up leaned over to check tire pressure when sidewall blew out causing the tire to hit him in the upper chest and lower neck area
left side groin area started hurting while flipping a head nut for a crusher .
employee started missing work on 2/8/01 ; he was diagnosed with degenerative joint disease in his right knee .
while jacking up low tail dolly , jack slipped out and hit employee on side of head near jaw/ear .
6/4/12 at 11:45 am the electricians were called to check out the production hoist number 31 the hoist had `` kicked out '' twice since 9am   that morning . the hoist was downed at 11:15 to clean the generator . mine safety and health administration was called at 11:20 to report the hoist was down . mine safety and health administration was called back at 12:45 to report the hoist was back up and running fine .
injured worker was ratcheting a 1.5 ton come-along when he felt a pull in his left tricep muscle . later in the day his muscle became sore and started to swell . he went to the doctor and was placed on restrictions . avoid use of left arm until 5/13/09 .
employee was operating caterpillar 665 challenger tractor with a box scraper attached to the back of it . when he backed up to unload the box scraper he ran over a rock that caused the machine to jerk sideways causing his head to jerk to the side . doctor wants mri before returning to duty .
employee was working in the quarry generator room and while attempting to pry a nail out of some wood , the pry bar slipped off the nail head causing some minor back strain as he apparently reaggravated a pre-existing back problem .
employee was accessing crusher off the catwalk next to the crusher . employee stepped up approximately 6 '' above the side of catwalk onto the crusher frame . right foot slipped off causing the right foot to ( wedge ) between the frame of the crusher and the catwalk frame . this action caused the right foot to slip/twist sideways causing the right ankle to break .
employee was lifting rock over on to pan line on the longwall when employee felt pain in lower back .
loosening the closed side setting . his hand was on the hydraulic ram , used to make the adjustment . it retracted , pinching his left ring finger with 1300 psi of pressure .
employee was cleaning debris out of a new sump ( housekeeping ) and slipped . he reached out to grab something to keep from falling , which happened to be expandable metal . the edge of the metal caused lacerations to two fingers on the right hand .
employee was closing door on end loader , when door closed his hand was in door frame and door closed on middle finger cutting it . resulting in laceration requiring stitches .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the coalburg mine at break . spad number 524 , on belt number 18 break . # 27. the fall measured approximately 80 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7 ' high . no injuries were reported .
reported : he was helping his coworker attempt to unstop the suction on a boom of the fletcher roof bolter . he laid his left hand on the short-arm of the bolter , the other hand was pulling off the suction hose from beneath the drill box . the coworker raised the boom , the movement caused the victims finger to be caught between the short-arm and the machine frame , resulting in a cut .
the employee was bending a roof bolt while it was in the hole when he felt pain in his lower back . the employee began loosing time as of 8/20/09 .
the supervisor of the miner section found a roof fall that was above the anchor point of the roof bolts in an `` outby '' area of the mine . the fall was approximately   15 ' wide , 30 ' long and approximately   4 ' high . the roof bolts used in this area were 42 '' mechanical that were installed 20+ years ago . the fall did not impede travel or ventilation .
he was removing a return roller from the sand stacker . he was using a 9 ' piece of pipe to push up on the belt in order to take the down pressure off the roller so it could be lifted out of the brackets . he pushed up on the pipe and felt a sharp pain in his right arm between the elbow and shoulder .
using a backhoe to clean mud , clay and rock out of raised bed of articulated haul truck ... working backhoe bucket near midsection of bed ... glob of mud fell from the side of the inner bed striking backhoe bucket ... rock that was part of the glob of material rolled over the bucket striking the web of employee's left hand resulting in seven ( 7 ) stitches ... no lost time or change of duties
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the galatia north 5 west headgate number 2 @ 5425 west . the fall was 33 ' long x 18 ' wide by 7 - 8 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners   . the fall will be cleaned up .
the unwitnessed employee stated that when he was lifting a roll of fabric , he misstepped and twisted his back . he was taken to the hospital , received tx and injectable meds and scrips . he failed to show up 2 days later for follow-up visit with doctor and we discovered that he had taken employment with another employer and denied any problem with his back .
employee was leaving the coke mill building using the west man door when he stepped on a 1 '' diameter mill ball ( approximately ) about two steps outside the west door . he lost his balance and fell , partially catching himself with his left wrist and landing on his back . lost time date started 12/18/14 .
sitting on mantrip when a piece of rock fell into his eye .
loading scrap iron for offsite disposal . big piece of metal hit employee's left ring finger . employee came in at 9:15 am on 1/19/16 , made a doctor's appointment at seneca family practice . they said employee fractured left ring finger but will be able to return to work immediately .
employee hopped off front tire she had been standing on to put antifreeze in her truck . when touching ground , her back popped and started hurting
employee was washing off the number 5 kiln concrete firing deck . a piece of flat bar metal was leaned up against the kilns doors . vibration caused the metal to fall and strike employee on his upper right calf .
employee was walking and did not notice he was standing on ice , the ice was covered with sand . the ice broke and he went down to his shins and jarred his back .
employee sustained noise-induced hearing loss .
employee alleges while hanging an empty 2 inch water line employee felt pain in employee's lower back . employee has not missed work , employee began working restricted on 4/12/16 . alleged incident is under investigation . due to the reporting deadline , this document is being submitted to comply with reporting criteria until full determination of actual injury and/or incident can be substantiated .
employee was shoveling under conveyors , complained of sore back .
injured was in the process of cleaning out a conveyer chain that had fowled up and gobbed off , injured was removing the gob by hand when gob broke free , freeing up fowled chain when this happened   conveyer chain caught injured's left hand resulting in the injury .
employee was moving a half full drum of antifreeze from the shop to a haul truck outside of the shop to drain antifreeze from truck into drum . employee was using a set of hand trucks to move drum . drum shifted to right side of hand truck and started to tip over . employee lunged to catch drum and strained lower back .
employee was working on a 289 rock truck when the accident happened . employee was tightening a large nut with a hammer and a chisel when a small piece of metal came off of the nut and struck the employee in the right cheek .
injured employee was preparing to do maintenance on the a-side scalper screen . employee was entering the screen from the high side . employee foot slipped out causing a hyperextension of left knee . initially a file only . injured employee received medical treatment on 05/02/2018 .
employee was using a glass beaker in the lab . when she lifted the beaker , the beaker broke and she was cut by the glass on her right thumb . she was given 4 stitches and was given a full work release .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on 6-27-01. distance from the active face was approximately 4,500 ' . there were no personal injuries and no equipment was involved . size of fall measured 110 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' . all entrances to fall have been breakered off .
employee was using a pry bar to help change a steering jack on a shuttle car . pry bar slipped letting steering jack fall hitting employee on left index finger causing a cut that required 7 stitches to close   .
an unplanned roof fall occurred along the number 7 belt in the cross-cut from 5 to 6 near spad # 02797. the ventilation was not affected . the fall measured 40' long x 20' wide x 48 '' high. all entrances to the fall   will be breakered off and the fall area will not be rehabilitated .
employee was hanging screen on a shield when a piece of slate fell from the roof and struck employee in the right wrist causing a laceration that required 4 sutures .
employee was removing a rock from slope belt and felt pain in his right lower back .
he was raising side compartment of hood on powder truck in order to change fan belts . hood was heave due to mud buildup underneath . he wasn't aware of extra weight of hood ; when attempting to   lift , he encountered more weight than he was able to lift and dropped hood back to its resting place .
number 1 production hoist down electrical 75 % speed switch was out . called mine safety and health administration at 5:05 pm . had to wait for 10 minutes for someone to answer , asked him to make note of this . called mine safety and health administration back at 8:31 to report hoist was running .
employee was driving a wedge into a stopping when a piece of plaster flew into left eye .
employee was shoveling stemming holes when he felt a pain in his back . incident occurred on friday and did not go to doctor until monday 8/1/05 .
the employee was walking around the cone crusher and stepped on a pick and he slipped and fell . as he fell forward he hit his nose on the hand rail
parked 30 feet inby the feeder in 9 south mains , went to step out of ram car number 4 to go shovel the feeder and rolled his right ankle upon dismount . no issue with training , personal protective equipment , mining machinery or compliance .
employee was hanging highline and pulled something in shoulder .
miner was reaching across conveyor belt , and as the stone was coming up employee reached out and over to grab a small piece employee thought was going to get stuck in the turn . as employee was stretching out across the belt employee felt a pain on the backside of the left knee .
p &amp; p contractor began hanging feeder cable when he felt a strain in his left shoulder .
after drilling a hole , the employee placed a roofbolt on the drill head and as he attempted to push the bolt into the hole , the bolt missed the hole and hit the mine roof causing the roofbolt to bow out and smash his left index finger between the bolt and the drill steel clamps resulting in a laceration which required 7 sutures .
employee was working with crew replacing screen in wet tower . as he pushed the screen into position he felt a twinge in upper right   thigh/hip caused by pulled or torn hamstring .
installing a pipe on the elevator to the dust collector . the pipe was tack welded in place . employee was pulling on the pipe with a come-along to line it up . when the weld broke and the pipe fell hitting his finger between the pipe and the elevator . 12 stitches .
miner was cutting on feed end of ball finish mill with a torch . a flammable material flashed from cutting slot . the material was unknown . miner received first degree burn and 2 small 2nd degree burns of left side of face .
employee was washing out batch plant area , stepped on 1 '' rubber hose , twisting right   ankle .
employee stepped on a piece of loose material causing his left ankle to turn causing a bad sprain .
employee was prepping pond to switch tailings line . he lifted 6 '' flex line and felt sharp pain in groin area .
employee was applying a label to a bottle of acetic anhydride . when he squeezed the bottle it squirted some into his right eye .
employee , in personal car , pulled onto public hwy from non mine property , into the path of an oncoming car , was hit in the side . was initially told by mine safety and health administration a 7000-1 was not required .
employee was helping anchor tailpiece and while holding one of the hydraulic jacks got his right hand caught between the jack base and roof pad .
employee was removing a shaft mount gear reducer , the gear puller slipped and hit employee on his left knee , causing a laceration requiring stitches .
employee was in the process of tightening a take-up on the surface sampler belt using a wrench . as he was pulling on the wrench he felt pain in his left shoulder . employee continued to work up until 6-17-2014 when he had surgery to repair his shoulder . his first day of work missed due to this incident was 6-17-2014 .
the employee was moving an engine vibration damper to allow access to the front crankshaft seal when he felt something pop in the lower middle portion of his lower back .
employee picked up 50 lb   bag sample , placed on his shoulder and later lowered to chest area and proceeded to truck . later experienced pain in lower left chest area .
he felt pain in his left shoulder while attempting to close a rail car door . he reported the incident but declined medical care at the time . his shoulder still hurt on 12/5/03 and he wanted medical   care . sent to mar monte . possible torn rotator cuff .
employee was dismantling cowles mixer blade from a shaft . employee was using a wrench and socket with ratchet that were not the correct size for the job . the bolt came loose , employee's hand slipped and hit the blade .
employee was pushing boom pins out of a loader using a crib block as a press . the crib block fell over and smashed his left thumb between the boom arm and crib block .
rubber mat on floor of control panel was tripped on and employee sprained ankle .
the employee was operating the longwall shear , while walking along the face the employee stepped onto a shield toe and twisted his right knee . diagnosed with a torn medial collateral ligament .
was removing belt structure on the f-22 longwall when he stepped in a muddy hole and slipped causing his knee to twist . worked until 10/16/2013 and then started missing work .
replacing screen on sign bend while replacing screen strained left lower back. worked until 9/18/07
employee was pressure washing transmission core . rubbed eyes with hand .
employee reports lung sensitivity to chemical and requested doctor visit . initially seen and released to full duty 6/15/18 . employee sought full work restriction 6/18/18 which was granted by physicians assistant for 5 days 6/18 - 6/22 . employee resigned/retired effective 6/20/18 .
employee was changing by pass filter on the haul truck . employee was laying on side changing filter and overexerted his elbow .
employee was pulling a piece of chain out of the dirt . the chain hung up . he tugged at the chain and it came free and wrapped around his foot , tripping him . he fell into the rib , spraining his shoulder .
employee was helping to fix a broken hand rail on the kiln access ramp . the metal pipe rail slipped and the broken end of the pipe hit the back of his left hand causing a laceration approximately   2 inches in length . the employee was taken to a nearby clinic and received 7 stitches to close the wound . no gloves were being worn at the time of the incident .
employee was doing a routine check on caterpillar 785 rock truck and as he exiting from underneath the truck he hit his left shoulder on a pull hook under the bumper and then hit the side of his head on the bumper . he wearing hard hat .
a roof fall occurred in the 10th east , number 4 entry , at number 46 cross-cut . the fall was 20 ' long , 20 ' wide , and 8 ' high . the area was bolted with 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation   , travel , damage equipment , or cause any injury . this area is not active workings . no one was required to work or travel in this entry .
injured employee and co worker were turning plates over to grind rought edges off of both sides . at the end of the day , he developed soreness in his right wrist .
the crabapple elevator stopped part of the way down in the shaft with employee on board . employee was on the elevator for 55 min . he was not injured as a result of this incident .
while opening the door on a metal dumpster he injured his right index finger on a piece of metal .
employee was operating bolter , putting roof bolt in the hole . he bumped his mouth against the pin board .
while driving haul truck it began to bounce going up an incline and hurt his back .
employee was walking toward miner when he stepped on a rock and creeled his ankle and fell on his knee . employee started missing on 07/19/10
unplanned roof fall occurred number 6 belt intake at spad # 1423. fall was approximately 100 ft length x 20 ft wide x 8 ft height . no injuries , entrapment or equipment involved . no ventilation , escapeway , or travelway involved . area was developed 11-30-09. fall was 4600 ft from face .
employee was using a box cutter to cut a conveyor belt and cut his leg
an unplanned roof fall was discovered on 1/5/2015 . the fall was located in the south west mains 1 in the number 6 entry ; number 17 to 18 block ; inby spad # 995. the fall measured 18' wide x 75' long x 6' high . weak laminated shale roof that was layered with sand streaks and deteriorated over time .
setting up drip pan on 2-16 heater . one end of the 6 '' pvc drain pipe fell off the jack stand causing the other end to rise pinching employee left thumb against the drip pan . employee was treated at medical with a steri-strip .
employee was opening the air-lock doors on the way outside the hinges broke causing the door to hit him on the arm and rib cage . he continued to work until 6/18/02 . he went to the doctor and was off work until 6/24/02 when he returned back to work .
employee was attempting to cut outer jacked of cable . the cable was stiff due to being cold the knife slipped cutting his right thigh .
employee began employee's shift at 3:30 pm on 1/11/16 . performing normal duties under normal conditions . employee started out shrink wrapping material . then employee was going to begin loading rock dust into bags . employee bent over to pick up an empty bag , when employee said employee felt a pop/pull in employee's groin .
injured was pulling down a rib . when he pulled the rib down it hit a belt standard that was standing against the rib . the belt standard in turn fell over striking his left foot . he broke a metatarsal   bone .
employee was notified by letter dated april 24 , 2003 by the united states department of labor and has exercised his rights under title 30 code of federal regulations part 90 .
employee was cleaning the slide on a tail pulley when the take up slid forward and smashed his left hand . his left finger was cut . employee missed three days of working and is now working restricted duty .
while disengaging the clutch , on number 1000 portable water jet , employee contacted a protruding bolt , with his right forearm . employee received a contusion to his right forearm as a result of the contact .
a lowboy mine car was being lifted by a jack . the jack pivoted ; the car came down the rail causing it to go down . the miner was standing out 4 feet inby the car with left foot under rail breaking 3rd and 4th metatarsal bones .
the technician was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome caused by repetitive use of his hands in gripping type motions while performing electrical wiring and other electrical work which required   surgery on 1-8-04 .
employee was pulling a rock out of tail piece . a rock became fouled at the 4a head drive number 1 tailpiece . employee was pulling the rock out when employee strained/sprained employee's right lower back . employee took self to the hospital to be checked . employee was taken off from work for 2 days . employee returned to work on 02/14/2018 with no restrictions .
ie stepped out of ram car and tripped over a curtain laying on the mine floor . employee stumbled and struck left forearm on a coal rib . employee received a laceration that took 5 sutures to close .
employee presented a letter to lone mountain reporting the results of a chest x ray finding from the national institute for occupational safety and health . the result noted evidence of pneumoconiosis . he continues to work .
employee went to see company doctor on 2/7/02 and was placed on restricted duty . employee was working on a water tank to raise it up 4 ' and when he lifted a steel pipe , he strained his lower back   .
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 west number 3 mains , 64 cross-cut , number 6 entry . the fall measures approx . 25 feet long , 18 ft wide , and 6 ft thick . the area is supported with 5 foot fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was walking to his work station and stepped in a hole , causing him to slip and twist his ankle .
while the employee was operating a fletcher twin boom bolter , employee pushed on the chuck and the drill steel fell and lacerated employee's left elbow .
employee had been working on a steel dock plate which was up on horses being repaired . he picked up on one side of the plate to reposition it and felt a sharp pain in his lower back , right side .
employee noticed build up of debris on conveyor # 10. employee approached conveyor number 10 , climbed on bulldozer in order to reach the bolt , removed an bolt from the guard , swung guard out of the way so employee could reach in and knock debris off without shoveling conveyor . arm was caught on pulley , require surgery .
employee was lifting a motor and strained his hand . he did not report until 16 july 2010 .
a roof fall occurred in number 5 entry , number 11 cross-cut of the 1st north submain . the fall was 20 ' long , 20 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchors . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
employee was cleaning the tower when a chunk of cement came loose and fell striking the bar that he was using to clean . the bar then swung around and hit him in the side of the head . he is complaining of headaches and strained muscles and sought treatment at occupational health and safety on 11/17/08 . he is on 10 lb lifting restrictions and sees the doctor again on 11/20/08 .
pulling on fire foot bar to remove converter from a 9733 engine . recd doctor note indicating restrictions and hand splint 11/20/00
on 12/5/2013 employee stated in writing that he strained his back pulling up on a spud bar . he did not want to see a doctor and finished his shift . on 1/16/2014 he seen a doctor for a back pain . he was off by the doctors orders for 5 days and came back to work on 1/21/2014 with restriction . he will be reevaluated by the doctor on 1/24/2014
employee was emptying trash . the dumpster lid was caught in an open position by the fence behind it . then the lid fell and pinched his right thumb between the dumpster and lid .
employee was climbing down ducon tank ladder , a short 3 rung stationary ladder . took left leg off to place it on next rung and right foot slipped off . left leg went down and landed awkwardly on catwalk and right ankle got caught in between ladder and frame work . resulted in strained left knee and sprained right ankle .
injured was installing cable roof bolts . he had finished torquing the bolt and was retracting the boom mast . he placed his left hand on the boom mast . as it retracted , the boom mast caught his left   glove and pulled it between the boom mast and framework resulting in a fracture and laceration .
employee experienced back pain while loading haul truck . the operator was moving into the dig face when employee experienced the pain .
employee was washing small backhoe in wash bay . employee tried to reposition for better cleaning of engine . employee had left hand on handrail and both feet on the track . employee slipped and lost grip . realized step was not below employee and made contact with floor .
employee was changing out a side roll on the conveyor when he dropped the 10 lb . roll on his left knee resulting in a bruise
employee was working as a mechanic assistant around welding activities , during his work shift on 5/10/04 . later that night he suffered from irritated eyes , presumably caused by welding flashes .
the employee noticed a skin rash on several parts of the body . went to see doctor and diagnosed with contact dermatitis .
employee was assisting in removing draw rock from the top of the miner . as the rock was sliding off from the miner , he got his hand caught between the rock and door on launch vehicle . the employee   was wearing gloves . sutures and a finger splint for the fracture is the treatment received .
employee had reported to work on september 6 stating that he had been seen by his personal physician and had been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome . he had been working long hours , for several days , on an emergency overhaul and had aggravated his wrist . he was sent to the company doctor who has placed him on light duty with physical theraphy and anti-inflammatory drugs .
roof fall on number 1 unit , left return air course near spad # 8152. fall measured 25 ' long x 19 ' wide x 5 ' high . 4 ' resin bolts were in use in this area . fall is dangered off on all sides so no person can enter affected area .
the operator was using a 992g model to clean up a pit . he was loading the remains of a pad previously used by a pc 3000. while loading the bucket , the machine was stopped by a rock . the sudden stop of the machine caused the operator's wrist to be pushed against the joy stick and resulted in a sprain of the wrist .
while exiting a connex employee used a cross support bar as a step . his foot slid backwards causing him to fall . pain in left leg . employee taken to first aid where ice pack was applied , otc aleve was given for pain . he was released back to work . on 1/2/14 he was still having pain . x-ray done on 1/3 showed an avulsion fracture at the base of his lower left leg .
the employee was walking down the wash plant screen stairs when he slipped and went to catch himself and hurt his hand . employee was sent to fast med , was released back to work on 8/1/2012 he experienced sharp pain and numbness and sent him back to fast med .
removing a latch door for a chute at the krupp . as employee was setting the latch door down , he pinched his hand ( laceration ) .
employee was removing rust from a vibrator hose base and debris flew into his left eye .
in number 1 dry mill electrical room , employee was testing voltage in main breaker for transformer that feeds the substation . when using voltage meter , electrical flash caught employee on left hand . he was transported to hospital emergency room by fire department   rescue squad . some skin removal and perscription given .
employee was rolling cribbing off forks of volvo lift . cribbing rolled off fork and came close to employees foot and leg . employee turned his body quickly to avoid the cribbing and twisted his left knee .
flushing material from a hopper made contact with operator's legs , neck , belly , mouth . this material was around 800 degrees fahrenheit . improper personal protective equipment .
employee was improperly using a 4-1/2 '' grinder ( whereby the guard thus became ineffective ) to grind welding slag off of a metal ring . while holding the grinder with his left hand improperly , the grinder became out of control striking the tip of his right thumb . employee was wearing all required personal protective equipment .
last shift friday night noise was heard exiting the mine . found lower northeast wear plate folded . plans made to repair the wear plate and inspect the shaft before the weekend crew came in . sat morning , wear plate replaced , shaft inspected and discovered damaged guide at -965. call to mine safety and health administration at 11:25am to report shaft down . repairs completed and weekend crews returned to work at 4:00 pm
a roof fall occurred on main north track at 25 cross-cut , 28+00 feet , number 4 entry ( old 2 west area ) . fall was 60 ' long , 20 ' wide , 8 ' high. area was mined in october 1988. roof fall occurred due to deterioration of the immediate roof around existing roof bolts . area was supported with 8 ' resin anchored 2 ' , expander shell roof bolts , plank , header block , and 12 ' passive cable bolts and cribs with crossbars .
an employee and injured employee were moving an adjustable top rail to the 30 belt conveyor . as they were descending stairs , employee set his end down to reposition himself . injured employee was at the top of the stairs and felt the rail move . injured employee tried to reposition his hand when his finger got pinched between the rail and the top step .
employee was helping put wire screen on the miner when a piece of stone popped out of the rib and struck him on the face .
loader dropped a large rock in bed of truck causing driver to be jolted hard . employee complained of head neck and back pain . employee stated there was bleeding from the rectum . employee left   and went to logan general hosp . when he discovered the bleeding . the jolt broke counter inside of truck also .
employee got thumb on right hand stuck between a box of powder and the railing on the platform . employee placed on restricted duty .
mud was on steps of service truck causing employee to slip when getting in truck , hitting his face on the bottom door jam , knocking his front tooth loose .
on 10/12/04 injured fill out an accident report stating he was attempting to move 55 gal barrel of gear oil he strained his lower back , right side . injured went to doctor , continued working . 5/21/05 injured attempted to hook a welder to golf cart when he felt a pull . went to doctor worked 5/23 and 5/24 off work since 5/25/05 . not reportable until 5/21/05
changing screen cloth , employee was tightening j-bolt . slipped off hand went into edge of screen cloth . wrench cutting middle finger right hand .
employee was picking up a rock that had fell on the h20 line and strained his back .
employee was welding at the rosin dryer-110 room area when he accidentally struck an arc while his hood was up . he was treated for welding flash in his left eye .
as the miner was cutting the second pillar cut in the right side of the number   2 entry a roof fall occurred covering the continuous miner . there were no injuries . location of fall was on break and over spad number 2418 .
walking from mantrip to section , twisted ankle on a rock and fell on right hand and fractured wrist .
employee was using a battery powered sawzall and felt increased numbness and weakness in his hands . on 5/19/03 the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome was determined to be occupationally related . surgery on 5-19-03 .
employee was tightening an elbow on probe
i've   been gone since february returning on april 5th so this didn't get reported . employee was helping to align a shim under a pillow block bearing when the pry bar slipped while tightening the belts causing the pillow block bearing to drop on employee's left thumb . employee has a non displaced fracture of distal phalanx and laceration without foreign body damage to nail .
the employee was moving buggy tires and twisted lower left side of back when he picked up aired up tire to move to supply station .
employee was moving forks on skytrack ... decided to take a shortcut ... instead of tipping forks to release and swing free ... he tried to force while resting against the bar ... fork moved catching index finger of right hand ... broke finger ... removed nail ... peeled skin back .
a roof fall has occurred in the 1st northwest submains at spad 28+00 . the dimensions of roof fall are 180 ' long , 19 ' wide , and 6 ' high .
employee was using a cup type wire wheel . one of the wires struck him in the arm and became lodged in his arm . a physician saw the employee on 1-21-04 and stated that the wire would have to be left alone and work its way out . later , the wire had to be surgically removed . he was released to full duty immediately after the surgery .
employee started bagging belt . the head pulley was turning but the belt was not moving .
around 5:10am employee was climbing the steps to his euclid haul truck when he reached the third step his left foot slipped , causing him to fall down , hitting face arm hand , 4 loose teeth
employee performing maintenance work in plant . was securing ( ) holding ) ladder while another employee was handling a pipe coupler . coupler was dropped and fell approximately 6 ' , striking victim in head , causing lace rations and bruises . laceration required stitches . employee was not wearing hard hat at time of accident .
employee backed into be loaded and shovel door came in contact with headache rack , jarring the employee in the cab . employee complained of numbness in legs and tightness in upper back . initial evaluation resulted in referral to specialist , specialist released employee to restricted duty which could not be accommodated .
employee was cutting small tree down to clear area . while under supervision the employee fell . the tree , however when it came to rest it struck the employee's left ankle . employee did not see doctor thinking it was   only bruised until 6-7-02. reportable due to break .
descending a ladder at radial stacker for crusher , slipped on bottom rung and over extended his ( left ) knee . he did not request medical treatment until 3/18/04 . clinic determined sprain to ( left ) knee and he returned the same day to regular duty .
employee states that he hurt his back while driving getman lift truck on or about december 1 , 2004. pain grew worse in his back over past few weeks until employee finally went to the doctor of 01/05/05 . employee received light duty for three weeks .
employee was getting out of truck when he missed the second step . when his foot hit the mine floor causing him to twist right knee .
during the routine cleaning of the calciner employee was using a spud bar to clean an inspection porthole . during the process of clearing material from the port employee strained back .
employee was driving a personnel carrier down the mn travelway , when a small piece of rock fell from the roof and struck him in the face . this caused a laceration to the employees nose . he required 4 stitches to the bridge of the nose and 2 black eyes .
kuhn town elevator was down , door would not unlock at the top of the shaft . schindler was called and found the problem . they cleaned contactors to correct problem . elevator back in service at 2:30 pm . no persons were on the elevator at this time .
employee was attempting to repair a broken chain on the dm 45 ingersoll drill . while standing on the rotary head which was approximately 15 ' above the ground the opposite chain broke and allowed the rotary head to free fall approximately 12 ' while he was standing on it . the impact of the fall caused his injury .
employee was dismounting from the drill rig . as he stepped to the ground and put his weight on the foot that was on the ground , the rock he was stepping onto shifted , causing him to fall , rolling his   right ankle .
employee took a hearing test which put him over the limit on exposure to noise i was made aware on 8/2/10 that this is a reportable accident to mine safety and health administration . i apologize for failing to report this incident within the 10 working days as required in part 50 .
employee was moving pipes and tripped , causing the pipe to fall on his shoulder . he returned to work after treatment . he underwent physical therapy unsuccessfully and had later had surgery . this is a lost time as of 1-12-09
employee stripped outer jacket of cable , the knife slipped resulting in a cut to his left thumb .
the employee was fire bossing from tail to head , employee passed the shearer as they started mining . the employee stepped on the toe of 120 shield , when the shield inby employee pulled in pinning employee between the shield and pan line .
while riding in a mantrip was bounced off the seat when the vehicle ran over an unknown object . the injured experienced pain prompting a first aid only report 8/25/2016 . employee continued working without restriction until they began missing work due to surgery 3/23/2017 .
operator heard loud pop . looked back and saw flames coming out of exhaust pipe causing smoke to fill area , resulting turbo charger on fire . operator choose to leave area and start evacuation of   mine .
while checking the coolant level in the radiator of a diesel pump , the coolant boiled over causing it to hit employee on the right side of the face and eye causing first and second degree burns to those areas .
injured was releasing a brake on a railroad car . he stated that he had to jerk on the t-handle hook to break the brake loose . when he jerked on the t-handle it came out of the brake wheel causing his right elbow to strike the drawhead of the railroad car .
employee was in the employees parking lot and was walking to his vehicle . employee slipped on some ice and fell onto his claw hammer which punctured employees left buttocks . first aid was provided to the employee .
employee stood up after eating lunch and as he was turning around to leave , a pain in his right leg caused him to sit back down .
roof fall 1w number 3 belt , cross-cut number 95 to # 96. dimensions high 20 ' wide 19.5 ' long 85 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale with prominent roof jointing or slips in roof . roof support : 5 ' conventional bolts .
this injury occurred while doing overhead lifting over a period of four days .
employee was washing off a concrete pad with a high pressure water hose , when hose broke and struck employee in the leg , causing injury .
employee was moving a 12 x 12 x 8 timber out of a pick-up when he claims to have twisted wrong and pinched a nerve in his back .
employee smashed pinky finger on left hand while rebuilding pump . diagnosis laceration , released to restricted duty .
employee was operating the tail side shearer drum . some rock fell into the panline inby the shearer and as it went under the shearer a piece was kicked out into the jack line striking him on the left   lower leg causing a hairline fracture to the small bone in lower leg .
while working on communication equipment , employee relaxed his hand to his side where his right pinky finger came into contact with the partially exposed blade of a utility knife . medical aid was sought and five stitches were required .
employee was working at the harris mine , used the bathroom porta john and a spider bit him .
employee was stacking/storing wire mesh onto the walk-through bolters mesh handling slide . as employee was handling the mesh , the tip of employee's finger caught on the mesh causing a laceration to the tip of the finger . employee received 4 sutures to the tip of the finger . employee received a full release to perform normal occupation . employee did not miss time as a result of this injury .
he had stepped down from a endloader and stepped into a drill hole and fractured his right ankle . he was starting the loader for work time to warm up .
employee was backing up a rubber tired mantrip `` 3-wheeler '' when he struck his head against the mine roof .
employee was trying to stabilize the atrs beam mount to flip it over . when flipping it over the mesh latch assembly came down and cut from the first knuckle off on his index finger on left hand .
three miners were cleaning up . one was operating a wheel loader and the other two were throwing scrap steel into the bucket to be taken to a dumpster . the loader operator thought one of the other miners signaled operator to lower the bucket . operator then lowered the bucket onto one of the miners foot .
the employee was cutting a steel plate when the cut end fell on his left foot . he told the head mechanic he told the owner , who then told injured to go to the doctor as the steel had punctured the skin . injured filled a labor &amp; industries report . on the report , injured said that head mechanic was a witness , but he did not witness the accident .
employee was helping put derailed bus back on track . while using a railroad jack to lift the bus , the jack slipped out from under the bus striking his hand . a 1/2 '' long cut required three stitches .
employee was carrying a tool bag . the tool bag was in front of him about chest high which limited his visibility . he made a right hand turn . when he turned he stepped on a timber 6 '' x 6 '' x 3 ' and twisted his right ankle . he requested to go to the doctor on 7/25/13 and has 2 fractures . he was on days off after the fall and requested not to go to the doctor at time of injury .
employee was using two wrenches to break a fitting . one slipped , causing the employees hand to strike a metal vise . laceration to left index finger , requiring 6 stitches .
as employee was lapping belt into scoop bucket his foot was under the bucket resting on a rock . the scoop operator trammed the scoop forward and caught employees foot between the bottom of the bucket and the rock . employee refused ambulance and went to raleigh general hospital for treatment .
employee was walking from the wash plant to the water pump control box ( approximately 75 feet ) . employee reports stepping on a rock and twisting/spraining his knee . physician exam and x-rays showed no permanent damage to knee . physician placed 30 lb . lifting restriction , no bending or twisting , walking as tolerated .
employee was walking between the a track and runner switch at the landing at solvay when employee slipped on a piece of ice falling on buttocks . employee felt a pain in lower neck/middle back area and a tingling in left hand . employee was taken to the emergency room where employee was advised a follow up with employee's primary physician , restricted to light duty and discharged .
employee states he was climbing steps into semitrailer on job site and slipped on step , causing him to fall forward and strike face on breaker box .
examiner found roof fall in number 2 entry of the main north entry fall is approximately   40 ' long 17-18 '' wide 6-7 ' high fall is in intake between 32 to 33 cross-cut 2580 to 2660 - will clean up around fall in adjacent entries to have passable travel wall . fall will not be cleaned up timber or cribs will be set on ends of fall .
a roof fall was found on 3/14/2015 at entry 7 at survey station 35+70 in 8l intake , mobile mining unit 010. area had been mined 2/20/2015 and was supported with 8 ' full resin pins , 4 additional 10 ' cable bolts had been installed in intersection . two significant slips likely contributed to failure . no injury or property damage resulted , no plan to clean up fall .
employee was tightening bolt on screen deck clamp board and felt pain in right shoulder . employee did not seek medical treatment until april 26 , 2018. employee was diagnosed with a labral tear on may 4 , 2018 and reported back to work with no restrictions . employee will be having surgery in the near future , in the interim employee continues to work normal job .
two mechanics were working on a rotary valve in the return dust silo . they had closed the manual gate , pulled the end cap they cleaned out the rotary valve , material fell from above and entered   his eye .
employee was climbing onto the volvo trackhoe . as he pulled himself up he felt a pain in his right shoulder and felt it pop . he reported it to his supervisor .
washing batteries on fairchild scoop , a kink came in hose . while removing kink the force of the water through right hand into the lid of scoop battery causing a laceration to right ring finger . requiring 5 stitches . .
the injured person was trying to pry open the chamber door to a drais mill , when the pry bar he was using slipped . the injury occurred when he over extended his right elbow . the doctor diagnosed the injury as a lateral epicondylitis of the right elbow .
employee was operating a scoop and using a cable to pull a conveyor chain back together in a shuttle car . the cable broke and struck employee in the face .
the injured worker slipped on an oily surface where he was standing to replace the leaking seal and twisted his left knee . he did not report the injury for a few days as he thought it was a minor injury . after doctor visit and and mri it was determined that surgery would be required to his knee . this was determined on 11/3/05 .
employee was tightening a bolt on the primary crusher and pulled muscles in his shoulder and neck
while employee was walking from shop area to midway building he stepped on a large stone causing him to twist foot . he didn't report anything wrong and took 2 personal vacation days without telling anyone what had happened . 3 days after the incident he went to the hospital to find that the foot was broken . on monday   ( 5 days later ) he came to the plant to tell us what had happened . no witnesses .
employee was cleaning kiln number 3 feed shelf with a waterblaster when from the port of tower a puff of hot kiln dust came out . the dust went under face shield and burned his chin and lips .
a roof fall occurred old 4th south unit 2. fall is in an intersection in a return entry . the fall affected ventilation and unit mobile mining unit 002-0 ceased production until the fall was cleaned up . the fall is 18 ' long by 18 ' wide by 8 ' high. supported with 6 and 10 ft point anchor roof bolts .
injury employee was walking around the front of the section feeder when he stepped on some loose coal causing him to loose his balance and fall on his right foot , he was seen by his family doctor and removed from work 11-13-07 .
in the right breaks between 3 and 4 employee had his hand in the vise for the hands off on the roof bolter , when he passed the wrong lever and clamped his left hand .
employee was driving a forklift tractor on the main road of panel 20. tractor tie hit a rock in the road with the front tire causing the steering wheel to suddenly rotate or spin hitting employee in right hand .
employee lost footing on rock vibrator and fell . ( fell on screen - same level . )
while repairing a broken bracket on air door , employee was using a grinder and welder . at some point in the evening the employee thought employee had some dust in employee's right eye and reported it to employee's supervisor , who took employee into the doctor . the doctor at emergency room removed foreign object .
scoop operator was tramming around a corner when employee came in contact with a low hanging corner .
employee alleges he strained his back handling rock at a head drive .
employee was helping another employee splice conveyor belt . reached over side of conveyor to loosen bolt to roller. hand rail ( cable slipped ) fell to side , leg hung in frame of conveyor
employee was pumping water from pit , left area for an hour , returned and pump was still running but no water coming out the discharge hose . shut pump off and uncoupled the discharge hose . hot water from pump sprayed on employee's forearms and stomach/chest resulting in 1st and 2nd degree burns on 10 % of body . thermal burn
employee reported his right shoulder had been bothering him . no specific incident noted . employee was diagnosed with osteoarthritis . employee was not restricted or missed any time as a result of the illness until surgery was performed on 10/13/11 .
employee was walking back to a piece of equipment when employee tripped . the area was next to the standards of the electric shovel . footing was level with no large obstructions . when employee fell left lower forearm was lacerated and required sutures . the sutures made this incident reportable
elevator entrapment in 10:38 am -- out 12:24 am - employee was stuck in the concentrator step 3 freight elevator at 10:38 am for 106 minutes . mine safety and health administration was called at 10:58 am electronic voltage controller lost power - did not see voltage so the motor timed out , most likely due to dirty contacts . vendor keeps contacts clean .
contractor employee under our supervision was removing drill steel from hole and struck his left wrist on a metal burr , resulting in laceration . he was terminated for failing to follow company policy for seeking medical attention .
employee was operating a truck when the truck jumped from 1st to 2nd gear . after applying the brakes , they locked up throwing employee in to the canopy - striking his head . he landed on the metal edge of the seat , bruising his tailbone
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west panel off the main north in number 2 entry at 26 cross-cut . the intersection was supported with 48 '' fully grouted roof bolts .
bolting intersection in number 3 heading spad # 1305. employee was installing a combination bolt with his right hand on the pot and the corner rolled off on him .
fire in the coal pile discovered at 7:37 am this incident was reported to mine safety and health administration at 8:00 am using the 800 telephone number and it was completely put out by 8:18 am no person was injured and no equipment damaged was reported .
got out of mantrip car , stepped up and twisted knee . started missing work 11-16-2010 .
a reportable roof fall was found in e seam , 10 headgate , entry 1 , cross-cut 1. the fall was approximately 10 feet high , 24 feet wide , and 40 feet long .
employee was picking up pull chain on shuttle car and twisted right knee .
injured employee was replacing a hub liner in the number 1 raw mill separator , using a 1/2 '' electric impact wrench . when the wrench cord became hung up the employee pulled up on the cord in an attempt to free the   cord . the cord came free and the plug at the end of the cord struck the employee in the tooth .
roof bolt operator was pulling his cable slack up and was shocked . the shock burned his finger. the employee was taken outside immediately and treated . also taken to hospital where he was treated and kept one night for observation .
tailgate entry fall in front of and adjacent to the longwall face from approx 1390 ' to 1425 ' mark . the fall height was averaged about 3 ' .
contractor mine safety and health administration id # s146 all-around employee was using a cutting torch when something flew in right   eye under welding hood and safety glasses . employee did not report injury until 04/26/2016 . object was embedded .
employee was loosening bolts when the wrench slipped off and his hand struck on fitting . it cut through his glove and cut his little finger on his right hand . he received 4 stitches .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at cross-cut 128 , entry 5 , on the 1st north submain . the fall measured 30 ' long x 19 ' wide x 7.5 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' double lock bolts . no injuries were sustained , approximately   40 ' of belt structure was damaged .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 1 entry of 4 south mains . the fall was located at ss 175+20 in a return entry . the fall measured approximately   25 ft long by 16 ft wide by 8 ft high . no injury or equipment damage as a result of fall . fall will not be cleaned up .
employee climbing from operators position on a cat 631-d scraper . employee foot slipped off step causing his head to strike side of scraper . employee sufferer a slight concussion .
while coming down stairs , injured slipped on a chunk of material that was covered up at the bottom of the steps . he tried to catch himself .
on 7-6-2010 employee was recovering a water pump using a cart . the cart started to tip over and as he attempted to stop it from falling over he strained his right shoulder . employee continued to work . on 1-14-2014 he had surgery to correct this condition . the first day of work missed due to this condition was 01-14-2014 .
employee suffered a chemical burn to his right   eye , which required prescription medicine . employee was looking at the job in a squatted position . at that time a piece of scale fell from the press floor grating . the scale fell into trough splashing liquor into his eye .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on a-mains , number 4 entry ( number 1 belt ) , at number 7 block , 1 block left of spad 31. it measured 6 ' high x 8 ' long x 12 ' wide .
employee was lifting the hoist rope cover , located above his head and strained his right shoulder and arm .
a roof fall occurred in number 1 main belt entry about 20 ' inby the highwall . it measured 12' long , 16' wide , 3' high . no injuries . about 12 ' of belt structure pull cord and power control cable were moderately   damaged .
employee was changing worn screen panel . because of rain and very tight quarters inside the screen , employee slipped with a razor knife , cutting through his gloves into his fingers
employee was kneeling down at mine phone at section tailpiece . when he raised up , he struck his head against the mine roof . the employee did not start missing work until 2-11-04 .
employee repetitively refed 50 pound bags for 5 days . after employee weekend off , employee reported severe back pain and saw a doctor who gave employee medication and restricted duty
employee was working on a lead inside of a starting box and as employee was cutting the insulation off the lead employee's knife came out and struck employee's left arm .
the employee states he stepped out of the forklift and caught his left foot on one of the pedals of the forklift causing his left knee to strike the forklift . this resulted in a sprained knee .
employee was describing an incident on another machine as talking employee reached to show employee where bag had been caught and left hand went into pinch point-head pulley-idler roller area . abrasion to back of left hand and possible fracture to ring finger bottom knuckle
employee was positioning a box of resin on the right front tool tray of roof bolter in the e15 ( 026-0 ) section when the machine operator started to tram the machine inby to position machine for roof bolting . employee's left foot was run over by the front tire .
while removing the driveline from a 24h blade , the driveline slipped and pinched the employee's finger between the shaft and the concrete floor . the incident resulted in a laceration and a tuft fracture .
employee was putting up 4 '' steel pipe in panel , he pushed up with his right arm and felt and heard a pop in his right shoulder .
employee was pulling on a welding lead and tripped and fell on his left hand resulting in a broken left hand ,
employee was dismounting number 17 jeep ( 2 blocks outby 8a switch ) approximately 97 block 6 north track entry - employee stated that while stepping off of jeep twisted right ankle - fracturing bone in foot - bottom uneven - walkway was clear of obstructions .
employee alleges he was rolling a piece of screen cloth out on a storage rack and felt a pull in his back . he was diagnosed with a muscle strain , but after no improvement was sent for an mri which revealed a herniation of a disc .
employee and supervisor were changing bucket on track hoe . employee was holding 2nd pin when it came out quickly and forced his hand down on the bucket , pinching his left pinkie finger between bucket and pin . employee watched finger over weekend and made doctor appointment for 10/28/09 . he voluntarily took off monday and tuesday .
while working , went to remove a ripped piece of conveyor belting . while plant was stopping , the ripped belting fell between counter weight and got caught . the ripped belting was whipped around   . it tagged the lower legs , causing welting and cuts .
individual fell while exiting bt-5 mantrip on the kuhn town bottom . individual struck the left elbow and left knee when striking the ground .
person was working on electrical problem on dnr dozer . he was getting off dozer to go to service truck and when he stepped off push arm he twisted his right ankle and fell on ground .
individual was carrying crib blocks and tossing them in a pile when the individual felt pain in the right shoulder . individual continued to work until 4/8/11 when employee could no longer work .
the miner received 1st and 2nd degree burns when employee removed a battery lift jack after the bottom pin was cut out with a cutting torch . the miner placed the jack on the mine floor and the hot oil sprayed on the miners hand . the miner was wearing gloves at the time of the accident .
injured was standing on the bumper of the miner pulling roof straps into position on the strap holder when the operator dropped the boom on his right foot . he had two fractured toes with no treatment   .
employee was wearing cloth gloves while working with w46d chemical . the chemical soaked through his gloves and was later spread to other areas of his body . employee was exposed again without wearing proper   personal protective equipment according to material safety data sheet . restrictions began 7/17/03
employee started to kneel during her normal work duties when she felt her knee pop . there were no contributing conditions other than a previous injury that the employee stated happened out of the workplace . damage was to the right knee anterior cruciate ligament which will result in surgery .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 6 entry at spad number 13008 ventilation was not affected no persons or equipment was involved the fall measure 20 ' in length 19 ' width and 8 ' high all entrances have been breakered off .
employee was located at the bottom of a highwall moving hose when a rock came loose and hit his finger .
roof fall in number 2 belt mains near spad number 1940 measuring 50 ' long by 18 ' wide by 4.5 ' wide .
8h longwall , injured was standing mid-shear when a piece of rock fell , hit top of shear and slid into walkway . rock struck left foot causing fracture to left foot .
employee was rock bolting heading . gooseneck on drill broke loose and struck employee on cheek causing laceration that ended up needing stitches .
this report is being filed under protest and solely to abate citation 9005622. according to mine safety and health administration , employee ( social security number 5489 ) incurred a reportable injury when the tongue of a flat car came loose and struck him on the left hand . employee denies that it breached and duty to report an occupational injury and reserves the right to contest the issuance of the citation .
employee was installing a cable bolt in the roof . the plate came in contact with the bottom of his wrist causing a laceration .
employee was working on a dozer with an air wrench . a bolt came loose pinching his middle finger on this right hand .
employee was moving a large electric motor up a flight of stairs to a shaker at the main crusher and strained his lower back . the strain was enough for a doctor visit . the doctor prescribed muscle relaxants and 3 days of restrictive duty of no more than 10 pounds of lifting .
drill steel slipped off of carousel on drill . operator called for help . employee went to help . they kept the boom vertical , employee was holding the steel in place . he signaled to the drill operator that he is ready , while the grips were closing around steel ... he moved his hand into the clamp , catching his thumb between the clamp and the steel .
a roof fall occurred in belt entry at number 1 break . the fall was approximately 30 ft long x 20 ft wide x 5 ft high . the fall will be cleaned up and re-bolted .
a fully trained miner injured right ear when building a stopping and the block employee was lifting slipped from hands and hit ear . the accident was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
employee was changing wear plate in tunnel . rock fell from above hit employee in left hand .
employee . came to work and put on work boots . during tool box meeting employee   felt a burning/itching to his right foot , 4th toe . he felt swelling later during his work shift and removed his boot . employee . took ibuprofen for pain and swelling and applied ice . on 8/29/14 employee . taken to company doctor for increase swelling and drainage . employee . given an antibiotic and placed on restrictions .
employee advised he was carrying a belt rail post and tripped on the bottom roller . he dropped the rail to catch himself and the rail landed on top of his hand . his left hand was bruised and he   was required to be on restricted duty for two days .
employee was a passenger in a golf cart while traveling underground . as the golf cart traveled under an overcast , it started up a grade outby the overcast , and collided with a ram car ( dust hauler ) that was traveling through a ventilation curtain . injured employee struck right leg against something on the golf cart causing a partial fracture to the tibia , just below the knee .
employee was cutting to the head . a piece of draw rock came off the end of the drum striking member's right index finger . employee was wearing fingerless metacarpal gloves . employee received sutures .
on 4-19-01 , while employee's truck was being loaded it was jarred by a large rock and employee felt pain in his back . at that time , the employee did not wish to seek medical attention . on 4-23-01 , he went to the   doctor and was placed on sedentary duty .
employee was climbing down from loader , foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground and twisting his right ankle .
employee was welding , arc of welder flashed his eyes , causing burn to both eyes .
employee twisted his knee while walking into an excavation . he was released to full duty on 10/10/2013 . mri performed on 10/21/2013 showed a fracture . employee was put on restrictions on 10/23/2013 .
employee was putting fork arms on the forklift . he was trying to line up pin holder , and put his finger in the hole to see if it was lining up . the fork arms moved , cutting and smashing his left middle finger .
was on the bow of the boat trying to catch cable to place it on the boat to make a connection . suddenly , other employee put the boat into reverse , causing employee to go overboard , hitting the cable with his right arm and right shoulder . office was not made aware of the accident by foreman until 12/17/07 , and 7000-1 not complete until today .
while climbing down off the track mobile , the bottom step broke causing the employee to hyper extend his left knee . he was taken to seek medical attention and was put on restricted duty until his mri on 2/5/07 .
employee was stepping over pipe fittings between the rib and the mantrip when his foot slipped and he fell into the mantrip . reportable lost time injury 10/6/06 .
crew was changing the screens on the secondary lime deck and they had a loader positioned to pull screens from the bucket . loader bucket bled off and it dropped , causing the railing to fall onto the employee , knocking him into the screen . employee insisted he was fine and not hurt . next day requested vacation day . he worked following day , but called in 9/22/08 , wanting medical attention .
employee stated while working on the rk2 preheater ram employee was removing a 2 '' inch steel pin when it dropped onto right little finger . employee further stated it both smashed and cut finger . employee was taken to the hospital for treatment and the emergency room physician closed the wound with 2 sutures .
on 5/24/01 employee struck a loader bucket tooth with a hammer and metal splinter lodged in right thigh. after xray doctor decided not to remove it , put band-aid on it and employee returned   to full duty . on 10/02 , employee started having leg pain , no action taken other than prescriptions but pain continued . 6/10/03 neurologist put employee on restricted duty and scheduled nerve surgery 7/3/03 expected to be out of work 3 weeks and on
the employee twisted his right knee while attempting to mount an end dump after servicing it . this occurred on 3-5-04 , but he did not request medical attention until 8-30-04. an mri revealed a torn meniscus . he continued to perform his regular duties until the day of his surgery 10-5-04 and 10-5-04 is his first day of restricted duty .
the prod hoist tripped and could not be reset . upon investigation it was determined that an h strand on the southwest guide rope of the west skip had separated from the rope and had coiled up between the shoeboxes for the entire length of the rope . the coiled h strand contacted and damaged the first limit switch as the skip reached the head frame .
a roof fall was discovered at the number 7 wall intersection in the track entry of the old 6 east longwall section . no injuries . the dimensions of the fall are 30 feet long x 15 feet wide x 8 feet high .
employee alleges he received an electrical shock from a roof bolt machine cable . employee did not seek medical attention until 2-23-05. he was admitted to pineville hospital for observation only and released on 2-25-05 . ( no defects were observed in the cable . )
an examiner and an mine safety and health administration inspector found a roof fall during a weekly examination of a worked out area . the fall was located in the 1 left , 1 right , 3 left , 4 west panel in entry number 2 , between cross-cuts 11 and 12. the fall was located in the examiners normal route of travel .
roof fall at west mains track , number 5 entry at number 146 break . rock measured 20 ' x 20 ' x 9 ' . the location was mined in july 1989 and was bolted with 4 ' fully grouted bolts and 6 ' cable bolts . the fall occurred 36,260 ' from the face .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the entry number 1 . 1 break inby spad # 4319. this fall is approximately 2800 ' from active section in the return airway . area was developed 10/15/09 . roof fall did not affect ventilation and/or passage of persons . the fall will not be rehabilitated . size of fall 20' wide x 60' long x 8 ' thick . state and federal agencies notified immediately .
injured was in the rear seat of number 10 hummer on the passenger side . hummer went through a hole and hit hard on the bottom jamming injured into seat bottom and back . back of hummer then pitched up jamming   injured head against the roof . injured has started physical therapy on 3-26-03 .
employee was cleaning a screenbox on tank 91. trapped cleaning caustic broke free and splashed employee .
employee was hooking up chains to pull the jam die out , he held onto the top of the die with his right hand allowing his middle finger to get between the die and the jam , the die slipped to one side approx 1/2 '' and smashed the end of his middle finger .
employee complained of chest pains and other pains . he was taken to local hospital to be checked out . ( st luke's - tryon , north carolina ) from there sent to spartanburg , south carolina .
he was shoveling at the headgate drive area on the longwall face . he stood up and cut his right ear on a roof strap . the result was 7 sutures .
using torque wrench to loosen lug nut when miner slipped , rolled ankle and fractured his fibula
injured was installing a new concrete floor in an underground maintenance shop . he was operating a screen board to level off the cement when he sprained his lower back
employee strained back while lifting wheel chocks out of the bracket on the front of a haul truck
employee was helping coworker put on a patch on the primary crusher . they got ready to move the belt so as to get to the outer clips . coworker told employee and other employees to watch out he was going to bump the conveyor . employee thought he said to pull the belt by hand . when coworker hit the button , employee grabbed the belt and the belt broke his right   finger and cut his other finger .
employee stepped in a hole that was filled with water and twisted his right knee . lost time injury .
employee reported : working an extra day , assigned job of building a stopping . after completing the stacking process , was to begin applying plaster . when he picked up 35 lb bucket of plaster , experienced pain to his low back . pain worsened , came out of mine at 2:30pm , treated by local physician , removed from work stays until 10/1/07 .
employee was working on a scalper deck of a crushing plant . he got his finger between a bar and hammer and lacerated his right middle finger . employee did not report this injury until 10/13/09 when it became infected .
employee drilled hole in top and steel lodged in hole . as he let down drill pot steel fell , from the hole landing on his left index finger smashing it against drill chuck .
pinner steel was stuck in the pinner chuck , employee was trying to remove it when employee accidentally bumped the rotation lever and the steel spun and hit employee's wrist
employee was climbing down steps after oiling kiln , when he felt pain in right knee .
employee was in bolter basket , barring down rock , when rock came down and pinched employee's finger between the scaling bar and the bolter basket . ( flesh and muscle pulled off bone ; surgery to reattach was successful . )
employee was unloading main belt uni structure . when he experienced pain in his back .
the operator was working on cleaning up a slurry mess under a pre-leach thickner . the sump pump he was hosing into was overwhelmed with solid material causing the discharge line . the cam lock came   loose from the discharge line after being charged with air . the operator was struck by the filing on his left forearm .
employee was jackhammering through an inspection door on # 1fm discharge airfloat . when jackhammer slipped catching the middle finger on left hand between jackhammer handle and the door mashing the finger   . sent to doctor , finger was fractured .
the employee was sitting in a rubber tire mantrip with one leg on the ground . the operator advanced the mantrip forward causing a twist in the lower back . the injury was not reported until 12/13/10 .
a rock fall was found in 1st south panel off 1st east submain in number 9 entry at 12+00 to 13+00 in intersection . it measured 100 ft . long x 19 ft . wide x 8 ft . thick . the area has been timbered and cribbed around .
employee was using a wrench to remove a bolt when the wrench slipped and mashed the end of his middle finger on his right hand between the wrench and a piece of angle iron
employee stated that he was roof bolting when a piece of rock fell from the roof and struck his side and ankle on the left side . employee was x-rayed and x-rays are negative .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st main east , number 8 entry at cross-cut 32 no injuries or disruptions to ventilation . the fall was approximately   18 ' long - 18 ' wide - 8 ' high . the fall was discovered around 1:00 am . there was also no equipment involved .
employee was replacing a positive displacement blower and when reaching for his tool he felt a pain in his upper arm
walking behind machine and it slewed left and edge of canopy hit employee in the chest . employee's momentum placed employee close to the canopy . employee was briefly pinned against the rib .
employee was exiting a track locomotive mantrip along the me track neat e-15 . employee stepped into a hole in the mine bottom , twisting his right ankle . employee returned to his regular job 3/1/00 through 3/3/00 . first day off 3/6/00 .
employee reported soreness in shoulder after swinging 16 lb sledge hammer . employee states shoulder has been hurting for some time ( a year or more ) but is hurting worse now .
the employee was cleaning rock off his miner when the rock broke and cut his finger middle finger right hand . he received 3 stitches in his finger .
helping another employee put blocks between tracks of excavator . heard back pop ( blocks weight 10 lb each handled about 6 blocks one at a time ) . trying to put track back on excavator thought just pulled   muscle . keep working until 2:20pm drove dozier to quarry office trailer . hurt getting out of dozer and walking to office trailer .
bleeding off pressure on high pressure hydraulic line to flip hoses around on longwall shields and inadvertently caught shirt sleeve on valve . he was struck by oil/water mix on the left arm that resulted in three puncture wounds . the oil infiltrated under his skin and the surgery to clean the fluid required over 300 sutures .
at approximately   9:25 pm a roof fall above the anchorage was found in the e entry of the 3 right off 4 left off 4 north section . the fall was about 30 ft long x 18 ft wide and 6-7 ft high . the area was dangered off . there were no injuries or property damage . fell at 8+15 .
employee fell on ice 15 feet from electric shop door . amendment to report dated 11-13-03. citation 6232667 as per audit .
employee was walking to mantrip . as he was going through a check curtain he tripped over a rock and fell . he felt pain in his right shoulder .
employee was standing in front of a shield that lost shield pressure and they were trying to get the prime back . coworker moved back one shield and set the prime control the shield that employee was standing in front of moved and went against foot . cause was safety awareness , compliance with rules/regulations was not a factor , miner knowledge could be a factor , mining equipment/systems a factor .
a roof fall was found at 230 am on 10/10/07 , at cross cut 190 entry # 0. fall was in four way intersection that had been mined march , 1997. area was bolted with 8 ' full resin pins . no injury or property damage resulted . no plans to clean up fall .
employee rolled his ankle after stepping off a skid steer . he was seen at the emergency room , referred to a foot and ankle specialist , and was diagnosed there with a fractured ankle . employee put off work .
the employee reported that he had been working on a silt pan . he exited the pan by climbing over the side . upon exiting he felt a strain in his back . on 11/21/05 employee visited a physician who believed he had a pinched sciatic nerve . it wasn't reported until 11/21/05
an unintentional roof fall occurred in number 2 entry , 1 block out by spad 10847 , on mobile mining unit 007 . it measured 10 ' high by 18 ' wide by 112 ' long . additional floor to roof support was added .
contractor worker was doing routine maintenance in the green areas next to the administration and scale buildings . the worker was operating the lawn mower tractor , a piece of tree trunk got stuck   under the mower blades , at that moment the worker step out of the truck with the equipment running , the tractor was in a slope , his right leg got under the mower blade .
employee was grinding steel with a hand held grinder throughout the day . wearing a faceshield and glasses , when he got home he felt an irritation in his right eye .
employee was welding and using an air chipper to chip his weld . the employee had some dust and trash blow off of a grease trouph into right eye .
haul truck was being loaded when a large boulder jarred the truck and caused back pain to employee
employee diagnosed with occupational carpal tunnel syndrome on 6/14/17 . treatment / possible surgery is pending at this time .
employee was walking down stairs . he buckled his left knee .
a unintentional roof fall was at station and 1943 abc main west intersection on belt line . fallw as 20 ft long 18 ft wide 10 to 12 ft high . the area had been bolted with 6 ft super bolts with additional supports installed . there were no injuries or equipment involved .
operator of ( uld59 ) was remote mucking a floor pull in the 4430-141. the mucker was 100 feet from the operator when the left rib began to work , trapping uld59 . mine safety and health administration 800 line was called . employee of mine safety and health administration placed a ( k ) order on potentially affected areas yet said we over reported . mine safety and health administration supervisor employee advised that a 7000-1 still needed to be filed .
employee had picked up a track tie from a scoop bucket , the tie slipped out of his hand , fell , and pinched his left middle finger between the tie and scoop bucket .
employee was working in the bagger warehouse . he was preparing to load bagged product into a boxcar and proceeded to mount a forklift . as he was positioning himself in the seat of the fortruck , he felt   a sharp pain in his left hip and leg . employee received medical treatment and was ordered to have restricted work activity for 3 days .
employee was pulling metal out of the rock box at 2a belt head and cut his middle finger of his right hand . employee received 8 stitches .
removing concrete form from shaft . while breaking form from concrete , form broke loose from concrete and struck employee on the right arm . laceration to arm below elbow that required stitches .
on 6/17/09 employee was bush hogging when he ran into the ditch causing the steering wheel to jerk - jarring his right shoulder . he continued to work until doctor scheduled surgery on 8/27/09 .
injury happened on 1/31/01 . had reoccurring problem 3/30/01 . had to go to doctor who referred to orthopedic . was installing troughing roller . elbow hit metal frame .
employee was cutting a coupling . he accidentally stabbed himself in the leg . it required 4 stitches . he only missed a few hours work .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 2 entry 20 feet outby spad 511 in the 2nd west mains . the fall is approximately   18' wide x 20 ' long x 64 `` high . no persons , equipment nor ventilation was affected .
aggravated lower back . employee was assigned along with a second employee to remove a fuel hose reel from a mounting post . employee proceeded without second employee present . employee underestimated the weight of the fuel hose reel .
a mining foreman was operating a cat d6k2 lgp dozer blading a haul road . while blading he struck a rock , buried in the subgrade . this stopped the machine suddenly , causing the operator to lunge forward and strike his head against a steel grab bar in the machine . injury resulting was a left forehead laceration above the left eye , requiring 10 stitches .
employee was running a shuttle car and jarred his shoulder , and pulled shoulder muscles while supporting his body inside the shuttle car operation deck .
a mechanical problem with the sc4 conveyor head pulley resulted in the conveyor belt catching fire . a plant supervisor shut down the conveyor and local fire department was called to extinguish the burning conveyor belt . a limited amount of damage ( 36 feet of conveyor belt ) and no injuries as a result of this incident .
employee was standing beside the forklift as they were loading the scoop bucket with a bag of bulk dust . he reached down to get the pallet and had his right foot there also as the forklift pulled up , when he did this , he ran over his right foot causing a contusion with the forklift .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 130 mine on number 7 belt , break number 12 , number 4 entry that measured 60 ' in length , 10 ' in height and 20 ' in width . the area was developed on 11/6/06 . no injuries were reported .
employee was working in man basket . he was hanging netting in the underground mine , work was above his head . he tried to straighten the netting out so that there was no slack and one side fell . material was heavier than he anticipated and it jerked his arm and strained his shoulder . he sought treatment and is on 20 lb lifting restrictions . no prescription meds were prescribed .
pulling 250 lb tail pulley back with come-along , to line up bearing . latch didn't catch and released itself , pulley moved forward pinning l hand between frame and pulley . caught left middle , ring and little fingers. 3 sutures on 3rd finger and 1 suture on 5th finger . released for restricted , right-hand duty 5/14/2015 .
employee alleged that he was lifting end loader grill and that this is when he could have hurt his wrist .
mechanic was removing the dipstick for the transmission on the 52m broderson crane , when his hand made contact with the fan blade .
employee was lifting a 75 lb pump into a tractor , felt a pop and pull in the low back , and had immediate pain . employee was seen at the er , diagnosed with a lower back strain , and released to modified duty . at follow-up on 09/14/16 , employee was released to full duty .
fall occurred approximately 70 ft outby spad number 457 in number 7 entry . approximate size of roof fall is 60 ft long , 18 ft wide , 5 ft thick .
the employee was helping belt up when the employee was struck on the right thumb with a rail that was being installed by another employee . this injury resulted   in 4 stitches .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered along grassy creek mains number   4 entry between spads 14523 and 14656 ( intake ) . all approaches to the fall area were dangered and breakered off . approximately   fa ll dimensions were 30 ' long , 20 ' wide , 10 ' high .
a fully trained miner was injured when employee was using foot to spread rock dust . the following day employee felt pain in left knee . the injury was not a result of any compliance issues nor did it involve any protective devices .
after having incidents of back pain over several years , employee has had to cease working due to back pain . an mri performed on 7/15/2009 shows degenerative disc disease at the l4-l5 and l5-s1 and to a lesser degree in other areas . he said that this did not occur due to one particular event . he began missing work on 7/15/2009 .
employee was installing a water line when he was struck in the forehead by a piece of metal causing a laceration which resulted in 12 stitches .
roof fall was discovered on the tailgate side on n-panel longwall set-up at approximately   11:53 pm between spads 14690 and 14691. after investigation it was determined that the roof fall was above the roof bolt anchorage zone . an mine safety and health administration field office supervisor was notified at 12:33 am . no personnel were affected , no equipment or ventilation controls were damaged .
employee was helping to chip out the mixer at carlin east batch plant , another employee was chipping and a piece of metal flew off of the bit . the metal lodged in his left cheek .
employee was using a cutting torch to blow material off of a piece of metal when a foreign object went under his glasses into his left eye . a small piece of sandstone was flushed from his left eye . employee went to the eye doctor and was diagnosed with a scratched cornea . he was given prescription eye drops , no days were lost . this is to report medical treatment only .
at approximately 11:10 am smoke was discovered in the area just outside of the sugar run bottom dumpsters office . upon immediate investigation flames were observed coming out of the top of number 33 seal .
negligence of employee - he was standing where he should not have been he was in blind spot of operator .
while installing shelving at the south mill , keith pinched his finger in the locking device on the shelving unit . keith received 2 sutures .
employee was beating slag off with a hammer . slag flew up under his safety glass and into his left eye .
employee reported that he was experiencing numbness in his left hand and fingers . he went to the doctor who concluded that he has carpal tunnel syndrome .
employee was cutting highline cable with cutters to make a splice , when cutter handles went together his thumb on his left hand was caught between the handles . resulting in a laceration that required stitches .
employee was in number 5 entry reclaiming wing curtain when he pulled the curtain down his back began to hurt . his back continued to give him problems and on 9-10-02 , he went for chiropractic adjustments
unloading pallets , vendor had pallets in middle of load and employee was stacking the pallets that were setting up on end . the pallet fell from two stacks high striking employee in the head and right shoulder
employee was coming down the steps to check zinc feed pump when he stepped onto slick floor and lost footing . employee strained left knee and ankle . employee will have 2 surgeries - 1st one on 6-7-04. for the knee and 3 weeks later 2nd surgery on 6-28-04 operation on ankle . est lost time is 3.5 months
while loading a shot employee lifted a bag of 55 lb anfo from the tailgate of powder truck and turned to walk to next hole to load when he felt his lower back twinge .
employee stated that he was getting on the dozer to work . he stepped up onto push beam step where coal was piled on top of it . his foot slipped off causing him to hit his left knee against the step . knee started swelling about 3 weeks later . went to doctor on 1-3-2001. not reportable until lost time incurred on 1-31-2001 .
employee was installing a fuel tank on a tractor inside the truck shop , when lightening struck a nearby transformer on a power pole . the electrical charge traveled down the power pole and disbursed out through the ground , making contact with employee . he was transported to charlston area medical center general hospital , evaluated , given fluids as a precaution and released back to duty .
claimant has filed a report of occupational hearing loss with west virginia workers compensation .
dragline oiler was removing the pump tray on 101 dragline to repair a leak . the tray was attached to the overhead crane when it was cut loose from the mounting brackets . the tray / motor shifted when it was free causing the oiler's arm to hit the unistrut that was supporting the electrical conduit cutting his right forearm that required stitches .
employee had returned to work area on top of washer tank after lunch break where he had been working for several days . he went to get a drink of water as he felt weak and nauseated . a coworker noticed him sitting down and checked on him . he stated he did not feel good . help was called for . the radiated heat from the tank surface was 200 degrees . the heat index was 100 degrees .
employee states he was in process of opening a door on the wet bag powder trailer as he took his hand open the door the handle suddenly came around and struck him on the upper lip , causing a laceration   note : please see attached memo
employee was carrying a 5 gallon water bottle up the stairs to the control room in the plant . employee stated that he hurt his back .
employee lost footing while unloading tires from a box trailer . employee caught self with right hand injuring the palm and thumb .
the employee was sitting on the top of the crusher installing a piece of rubber around the bottom of the chute feeding the crusher . as the employee was bolting the piece , he felt a pain in his back .
a roof fall occurred 2800 ' outby face at spad 2334 in number 1 entry . it measured 18 ' wide x 50 ' long x 10 ' thick .
moving rocks on chute at hennepin energy recovery center plant , rocks slid landing on hand . possible fracture to left hand .
employee was using a 4.5 '' grinder to remove paint from metal channel when the grinder caught the metal and kicked back . the grinder caught the employee under the nose and cut it . the employee was not wearing his faceshield . improper use of hand power tools and personal protective equipment
was drilling holes in conveyor section when drill bit got bound in hole , causing drill motor to twist out of hand . drill hit back of hand .
employee was operating a log airdox model 482 scoop to clean loose coal in the number 7 entry when a piece of draw slate measuring 3 feet by 3 feet by 4 inches fell striking him on the head and shoulder . employee suffered an abrasion on the left side of his head and shoulder and a slight concussion .
roof fall at spad number 6 and 7 number 5 entry , north j-2 panel fall was 8'-10 ' high -- 18'-19 ' wide 22'-25 ' long . no injury and no equipment involved in fall .
while washing out f-9 tank , employee experienced problem with right arm . foreman advised employee to seek medical attention at emergency room . emergency room physician determined problem to be tendonitis .
employee claims to have injured his back while driving a pin into the rub rail of a continuous miner . he was using a five pound sledge hammer .
while loading a piece of wood approximately   3 ' x 4 ' into the backhoe bucket , employee's right glove caught on the wood , causing the panel to fall towards employee . a protruding nail head cut his left forearm .
employee was on offside of bolter stated he was not paying attention when operator moved up to next row of bolts , bolter tire ran over his foot .
employee had a 16 penny nail in employee's right hand when employee heard employee's name called . when employee turned to see who had called employee , employee tripped over an air line and fell to the floor . the nail cut employee's left wrist requiring 7 stitches to close . employee was released with no restrictions and returned to work .
employee alleges that when he hopped up onto a rail car to release the brake handle his right knee backside popped . injury became reportable on monday , august 26 , 2002 due to impending knee surgery   .
unintentional roof fall . cross-cut number 21 , 3 ep , number 3 entry . 25 ' long x 25 ' wide 8 ' high . 4-way intersection . mined 3-8-05 and bolted with 8 ' tr bolts . propped around . not going to clean up .
employee was removing a pail of gear lube from an area between unit 1 ball mills when he felt a pain in his back as he lifted the pail
employee was loosing a plug on a gear box when his hand slipped off of his wrench and his left elbow struck the edge of a belt guard on conveyor 40117. medical treatment was not required until 10-2 3-03 , at which time it became reportable . employee was placed on modified work .
employee was stacking rock when a piece scalled off and hit him on right forearm causing a laceration on arm . resulted in 3 stitches .
employee was getting out of the semi truck , stepping on unlevel ground and turned his ankle .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st right return in number 1 entry just outby number 15 cross-cut . it was discovered around 2:00 pm on sunday may 14 , 2006. exact time of fall is unknown . mr art gore , mine safety and health administration inspector , was notified at approximately   2:15 pm . the roof fall measured approximately 14 ' wide , 35 ' long and approximately 8 ' to 10 ' high . 1st right was evacuated and a plan developed to clean and bolt the fall .
employee was putting a 12 inch pipe in the 412 fusion machine and employee skin on the top of employee left ring finger was pinched between the pipe and a pin on the machine . a small laceration was the result and it required 3 stitches .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the 11 west longwall tailgate . the fall was between the face and the cribs in the number 3 entry of 10 west . the fall was 5 ' wide , 60 ' long and 4 ' high . the walkway was blocked .
while attempting to climb into a front end loader ( cat 966h ) , an employee slipped , hurting both knees . the employee was climbing in to the front end loader to load the hoppers with barite ore . the employee stated that as he was   entering the cab , his left leg slipped causing his right knee to impact the top of the cab landing .
utility person was moving a shovel , the shovel cable horn flipped over jerking the rope the utility person had a hold of which caused a pop in the employees left elbow area . an mri showed the bicep muscle was torn , on 08/29/2017 the employee was prescribed a brace , surgery is scheduled for approximately   09/05/17 . the employee has not missed any scheduled shifts until after surgery .
employee was watching a stainless steel pump impeller when he felt a foreign body in his left eye . no damage or impairment .
employee was removing a counter weight on a doosan d-25s forklift to investigate a steering column leak . the counter weight fell on top of employee's legs . employee received severe laceration to the inside left thigh resulting in muscle , tissue , and ligament damage . employee was transported to washakie county hospital for surgical repair .
employee was utilizing wire rope grabs to tighten cables . when he removed the grabs the cable slipped striking him in the left thigh . bruised thigh .
employee was pulling a 6 ft . roof bolt out of some scooped up gob in number   3 left when he felt something pull in his lower back .
employee was tightening screw with ratchet , felt slight strain in lower stomach , but didn't feel it necessary to see doctor in march '07 he requested to see a doctor , who thought it was a recurrence of pre-existing hernia . he referred employee to surgeon , who placed employee on app . 6 weeks restricted duty . once surgeon's medical notes were received   ( 4/5/07 ) and reviewed it was determined this was a new hernia .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered in the number 1 entry 1 break inby spad number 1970 in an intersection . size of fall approximately 5 ' high 36 ' long 18 ' wide . no injuries ; ventilation was not interrupted   ; no equipment was caught . the area had been supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts fall will not be cleaned up .
employee stated that while he was getting out of jig manlift he stepped onto a piece of metal that was sticking up from the floor to using him to twist his ankle .
employee filled 50 lb bags on 7/13/02 . he asked to fill bags again on 7/18 but said left shoulder hurt from 7/13 . he refused medical treatment . he asked to fill bags in february 2003 but said left should emergency room hurt with pain still from 7/13 . required him to see md on 2/28/03 . injury determined to be work related on 3/13/03 . injury under investigation by workers compensation   carrier .
during a part 50 audit and citation 9123765 being issued , this injury report is being filed . employee while pulling cover out of throat of a joy loader , the cover shifted and pinched employee's finger . cause of injury was awareness . compliance with rules/regulations , personal protective equipment , mining equipment/systems not a factor . miner proficiency may be a factor .
employee took his locomotive through the dip after the lead motor and 5 supply cars cleared the top of the hill . when he got to bottom of dip he collided with 2 supply cars which came uncoupled from the   rear of the trip . employee jumped off his motor at same time of impact .
employee was pulling on a roof bolt to straighten it and strained his back .
employee turned , twisted right knee while stemming blast holes . doctor visit 9/13 right knee strain orthopedist visit 10/13- suggest surgery arizona requested 2nd opinion 12/13 orthopedist visit suggested surgery surgery on 1/16/14 : incident became a reportable incident on 1/17/14 .
the production hoist stopped operating . it could not be restarted . it was discovered that an overtravel switch at the bottom of the production shaft was damaged . the switch was replaced and the hoist began to operate again .
employee was repairing machine , cut string , knife slipped , cut hand .
opening junction boxes , which were overhead . dirt fell into eye . employee was wearing safety glasses .
miner was helping to remove a guard at the end of a raw grinding mill and said he felt some discomfort in his back but did not want medical attention at the time . 1/14/2011 miner was having some back spasms and requested to see a doctor doctor diagnosed a sprain on the right side of his back .
employee was rushing down steps and tripped landing on his knees . the employee bruised his left knee .
employee was bolting on left side of bolter using wrench . the bolt bent catching the middle finger on left hand between wrench and bolt causing laceration requiring 9 stitches .
employee was walking through the plant , on his way to the unit # a182 . he slipped and fell down . on 7-11-00 employee asked to be taken to the doctor to have his back checked . off 7-12-00 .
employee was filling hydraulic tank on d8 dozer and slipped off contacting the ground .
employee was grinding on red screen when grinder suddenly shut off . employee saw that it had unplugged from the electric source , so he reached over and plugged it back in . the switch on the grinder was still on the on position , so when he plugged it in , it turned back on and it made a small cut on his left leg just below the knee .
employee was repairing dozer 10/12/09 in the field during a rain , employee slipped in the mud and felt burning sensation in his right knee . 10/13/09 knee was swollen and stiff requested to see a doctor diagnosed with knee strain . follow-up visit with doctor mri was ordered showed a moderate partial thickness tear to the posterior cruciate ligament . physical therapy was ordered 3 times a week for three weeks .
employee stated that they were taking the scrubber motor ductwork off the miner when it mashed a finger . they received 10 stitches to their ring finger .
the mill building passenger elevator stopped between the first and second floors with two employees inside . employees were going to be stuck for more than thirty minutes ; therefore , mine safety and health administration was called . the elevator contractor arrived on site , determined a control fuse had blown , replaced the fuse , and the employees were released . total time in elevator approximately 1 hr 17 min .
employee was moving the continuous miner cable out of the roadway .
employee was heading down the longwall face from the tailgate towards the headgate . employee raised up while employee was walking and came into contact with the side of a shield . this resulted in employee receiving 7 stitches .
injured suffered electrical burns while getting voltage readings on number 1 continuous miner receptacle . he was testing with a fluke megohmmeter model 1520 that was rated for 1000 volts .
the employee was putting a piece of stone into a pan and smashed his finger in between 2 pieces of rock . this cut his finger open . he was also wearing gloves .
slipped on icy conditions . went to doctor on 2/12/01
employee states he was walking in prep plant when short piece of pipe was dislodged by workers and fell 10-12 ' pipe struck employee on hard hat and broke hat causing 2 lacerations on head which resulting in 17 stitches to close wounds
kuhn town elevator stopped 200 ' below ground level with 2 persons on board . the 2 men were removed safely 37 minutes later with no injuries to report . elevator was tested by schindler and put back into service with no reported causes .
employee was getting bolts from the parts bin underneath the kiln backspill area when a foreign body got in his right eye .
employee was standing on flat , level concrete surface talking with a coworker . she turned to walk away and did not lift her foot off the ground . she rolled her left ankle over , spraining the ankle . a hairline fracture and bone chip were detected in the xray .
employee was installing roof bolt when the roof plate spun lacerating his right thumb . employee received 7 stitches
employee committed an unsafe act by trying to light a cigarette from a piece of hot metal when he moved his hand in the path of an acetylene torch flame being used by another person cutting nuts off the ball mill while in the manlift .
employee was cutting frame off of overturned trailer when metal frame came loose and struck employee's hand .
number 1 unit number 7 entry in the last open cross cut . employee was loading glue on back of the roof bolter . while turning back around to put glue on the bolter , right side of head struck damaged pie pan on roof bolt . piece of pie pan went under the side of hard hat causing laceration three inches above right ear resulting in two staples .
the dragline mechanic was disposing of a metal race bearing approximately 15 lbs dropping it 8 '' into a scrap metal bin . the dragline oiler walked by the bin at the same time . a sliver of steel flew out striking the dragline oiler in the right   elbow . the sliver punctured the skin and had to be treated with medication to prevent infection .
employee was operating a scoop , cleaning the number 5 entry. he did not see a joint of 4 '' pvc pipe that he picked up in the scoop bucket . the pipe was caught between the rib and the scoop bucket . when he moved forward the pipe dislodged and went into the operators compartment and struck him in the right forehead and eye area . employee sustained a fracture to the orbit of his right eye .
a roof fall occurred in an intersection in the mill fork left section . the fall measured approximately 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' in height . this roof in this area is laminated mudstone and cap rock . roof fall was in rock rooms and was not part of the working faces on this section .
employee was driving a pin with a sledgehammer . he missed the pin and the momentum of the hammer caused what was thought to be a shoulder strain . he was evaluated by a physician , diagnosed with   shoulder tendonitis and returned to work without restriction . the injury got progressively worse and the employee had surgery on june 29 , 01 .
employee was shoveling head drive and rock fell from top , striking him in lower back .
employee was getting down from his loader and began to fall , he stuck his foot out to try and catch himself and struck his foot on a piece of metal . he stubbed his foot at the toe .
employees were using an elliot aerial platform to perform scaling work when the man basket they were in fell to the ground .
truck driver raised dump truck body to offload excess limestone . when the dump body was fully extended , the tractor and trailer tripped over onto its side . driver was inside vehicle at the time   of capsize , and banged his knee .
employee was carrying a bucket of anfo to the holes . after loading a hole he was on the way back down on a slope and lost his footing . during the fall he caught himself and strained his left middle finger . went back to doctor 9/26 and became a medical treatment injury .
employee picked up a can of paint and turned to set the paint on the table and his back popped .
employee was swinging a suspended beater-bar which beats the underside of the grizzly to vibrate and keep material flowing from hopper . minimal effort is required to swing the suspended bar/hammer . employee   threw out right shoulder when swinging bar . right shoulder strain .
while marking the face of the slope , the mucker ran out of fuel and stalled . the mucker rolled and hit the face , throwing employee against the face .
an employee threw a used 4 1/2 '' grinding disk off an elevated platform and the disk bounced off a welding table and struck another employee in the right eye . employee went to the emergency room . and was informed he had a scratch on his eyeball , approximately   3/4 '' x 1/16 '' and that he had a paralyzed pupil .
200 feet inby survey spad 27346 on mobile mining unit 006-0 , a 10 foot long by 8 foot wide section of mine roof fell above the anchorage point .
a roof fall occurred in the active working section , mobile mining unit number 001-0. the fall occurred one break inby survey spad 6+96 in the intersection of number 6 entry and into the cross-cut from 6 entry to 5 entry .
the cable got caught under drag of shuttle car ( 300 dc ) and arched . as employee was getting out of car , he placed one hand on canopy handle and one foot on wet bottom , causing him to get a electrical shock .
employee works indoors in the chilton manufacturing center as a splitter operator . the employee was operating a splitter and a piece of rock fell off the table and struck foot . the employee was wearing steel toed boots with metatarsal protection .
employee stated that he was getting off of d-7 dozer when he slipped and caught himself with left hand and in doing so . he strained his left shoulder . this was reported as a first aid injury and a request   was made on 6-23-03 to have a doctor examine it . he was returned to work on modified duty .
employee was lifting/pulling on a broken screen to remove it from the screen deck when he began to experience lower back pain .
employee was running the offside of roofbolter , they were moving the bolt machine up to the next row , when a piece of rock fell from between the atrs and drill station , landed on his canopy and slid off , striking his right leg .
injured got on his knees to put a chain around a section of id discharge line . when he went to stand up he felt immediate pain in right knee .
the alleged injury was to have occurred while the employee was drill a hole for a roof bolt . he had drilled his starter steel 2nd changed to his finisher 2nd pusher steel together . he started drill again when the steel broke at the coupling causing steel to contact the left elbow causing a miner laceration requiring 2 stitches to close .
employee was helping to change screens and was crawling around under the top screen when he felt his knee pop . employee placed on restricted duty .
employee was pushing large metal box into an motor control center room when he experienced a strain in calf of left leg .
employee was removing fender from shuttle car and stained lower back .
employee was adjusting plastic on pallet stretch hooder machine . while adjusting the plastic his left thumb got pinched between the feed roller and the tension roller .
employee's left hand was injured while doing maintenance on a rock breaker . the employee's left hand was crushed between the rock breaker and hand rail . employee had 7 stitches .
employee was walking under an oak tree when he stumbled and lost his balance . as he tried to regain his balance his left foot turned sideways as it contacted the ground .
internal audit found need to report . employee was checking that the rail car was empty when flying dust got onto his left eye .
a grass fire discovered at 7:45 pm on the mine . a power line broke and fell to the ground , igniting the grass . the fire was extinguished by jewett fire department at 8:05 pm some logs were smoldering but the active burning was out . the fire was reported at 8:16 pm because of the the smoldering logs .
a roof fall measuring 140 ' x 20 ' x 3-6 ' occurred in the number   7 entry near spad 370. the fall will not be cleaned up . - section abandoned .
november 12 , 2014 at approximately   8 pm , hoist motor failed . electricians were called and found bad motor . mg set motor had to be replaced . repairs were completed on 11/13/2014 at 8:19 pm . hoist/shaft inspection were made and put back in service at that time .
he was loading round when anfo pot hose got away from him causing dust to be kicked up into air . the dust went up under his safety glasses and onto his left eye lashes . he attempted to wipe his eye off with dirty gloves on and it pushed dust into eye . on 6/26/11 event occurred reported it and went to medic . on 7/11/2011 he went to doctor and prescription was issued . no time missed .
the sealed area of the 3 right 1 main north apparently had an area subside . this caused a runoff pond on the surface to drain into the sealed area . it was estimated that the water contained in the pond was approximately 1 million gallons . the inundation of water into the sealed area caused water to be impounded behind the seals . the water was drained from behind the seals .
employee was working on the roof of an office building . that roof was approximately   12 ' from the ground . a high-power electrical line approximately   15 ' above the roof ran parallel to the bldg . he was installing a piece of metal trim when he was hit by high voltage . his clothing caught fire causing severe burns .
employee turned wheels of stockpile truck to the left for the rate of speed traveling , the load shifted causing truck to overturn on its right side . employee stated truck rolled over slowly and employee was not wearing his seatbelt as he was instructed to do .
while driving the waterpull to water roads , the employee experienced extreme bouncing and jerking around which caused lower back pain
employee was assisting maintenance in the rebuild of a piece of processing equipment , employee jammed left middle finger while positioning a component . the injury was diagnosed as a fracture .
employee was operating a john deere 650. he was moving backwards on a slope when all of a sudden , he hit a boulder ( rock ) which caused machine to jump into the air and land hard , sending pain throughout   his lower back .
hanging chain in kiln number 2. kiln is round and full of obstacles welded all over . employee slipped inside kiln and fell on anchors welded to kiln floor .
while steam cleaning the d-7 dozer , the steam cleaning hose became entangled on the dozer blade , causing the employee to lose control of the wand and spraying his right foot at the boot laces , hot water   entered his boot burning his ankles .
employee was bolting the roof top - put drill steel against top - a loose piece of draw rock came loose hitting employee , causing a small cut above wrist and some swelling .
employee jarred back when operating loader and struck a rock .
a sample beaker of approximately   20 ml of 70 % nitric acid slipped out of her hands and struck the counter top , broke and splashed liquid on her arms and small amount on face .
employee was moving a screen rail off a pallet to storage rack and it caught on the pallet . he pulled and felt a twinge in his lower back . he noted it but it go better . this month his lower back hurts and he thinks it is related . he reported it and we called for a doctor's appoint to get a diagnosis . saw doctor and given prescription for muscle relaxation . now reporting injury .
employee was installing rib bolts on cm miner in the 4west tailgate section and reached for a bit a rock fell striking right hand causing a fracture to index finger requiring plastic surgery . there were no compliance issues . it didn't involve job skills proficiency training or attitude personal protective equipment or protective devices no equipment involved . no other part 50 criteria applies
employee was remotely monitoring operation of crush/screen operation from a sitting position inside control room trailer . sharp pains felt in left side of chest . supervisor called and first aid was given assisted by mine safety and health administration personnel who were on property at that time . transported by ambulance to hospital . released same day return to full duty . diagnosis incomplete .
employee was measuring timbers to set to built a back-board for a new belt head - a piece of draw rock 16' x12' 3 ' thick fell and hit him on the little finger on left hand - broke little finger and cut it about 10-12 sutures .
employee suffers from degenerative condition of the left knee which causes him pain from time to time , especially when he stands up from a kneeling or squatting position . he experienced such an episode of pain while on the job on 2-16-00 when he stood up from a kneeling position as he was tightening the bolts on the fan shroud of o dozer .
employee was hammering in a survey stake when the top of the stake shattered due to a knot . when the stake shattered , the hammer made contact with her left hand causing a laceration which required three   sutures .
employee was trapped by a rock for approximateley three hours , mine safety and health administration was notified of the entrapment immediately . medical treatment rendered was limited to pain management and observation for a contusion . employee was removing rock from jaw crusher that wouldn't crush , as he stood on the rock , it rolled onto his right ankle pinning him .
a haul truck was backed into the shovel for loading when material came off the dig face landing on the tail of the truck's     box . this caused the truck to bounce , resulting in the driver hitting her nose on the steering wheel and stretching her back . on december 7th she received an epidural injection to relieve back pain .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred at cross-cut 7 entry 7 of the 2 west panel intake . the fall is approximately 19 feet wide , 20 feet long , and 8 feet high .
employee was opening cab door of his loader , and slipped while standing on ladder and caught himself aggravating his right elbow . he was originally seen back in november , but it is still bothering so he went to a specialist today that injected his elbow and was prescribed pain management night time drugs now making it recordable . he is back in his loader with no restrictions .
employee was splitting stone with a hammer and chisel . he felt pain in his middle finger of his right   hand . thinking the pain would go away , he did not immediately report it . a hard ball formed underneath the skin . prescribed 800 mg of ibuprofen . released to full duty but referred to an orthopedic specialist for possible surgery .
employee was using a wrench to loosen the bolt from the pillar block bearing cap , the wrench slipped off and hit employee int he 2 front teeth , chipping them .
employee stepped off dozer to fuel , walked three steps , stepped on cleg of mud and twisted ankle .
employee's were moving the buggy cable , employee had his foot in a loop whey they pulled the cable it jerked his feet out from under him and he landed on his back . employee was diag . with a sprained ankle and given time off from work .
employee was removing a nut holding a crossbar for a ball mill hatch . when employee loosened the nut employee's finger got pinched between the bar and the nut . employee was taken to physician , received 4 stitches and placed on restricted duty . ( no forcible grip with right hand , no use of vibrating tools with right hand )
employee working on t-rolls in tunnel , in a hurry , tripped in tunnel falling into a piece of steel , lacerating right little finger knuckle .
employee was on grader hand slipped on icy tire . caused him to loose his balance . slid down the tire like a slide landed on his feet on the ground and then he tumbled over .
employee was attempting to pull a flexible step down that was bent up under the bumper and while pulling , the metal base lacerated his hand .
employee was barring down clinker in the preheater transition chute when employee felt a `` pop '' in right elbow accompanied by numbness in hand and fingers . employee was treated by a physician for an injury/irritation of the ulnar nerve and placed on restricted duty pending clearance to return to full duty .
employee stated : on the morning of 8-14-01 , when he awoke there was a knot on the right side of his groin area , he feels this was the result of pulling/lifting on the continuous miner cable the previous   day .
a mine fire occurred at the 2 east mains number 3 belt drive that was not extinguished within 30 minutes . approximately 1800 ft of entry was damaged along with conveyer belt , structure , a belt drive and a belt take up unit .
employee performed work on the cat 910 parking brake and was testing it to see if the parking brake would hold . he was operating the cat 910 on or near an incline . the machine overturned . he was   found lying beside the machine . he sustained fatal internal injuries .
in the belt entry of number 1 longwall a fall had taken place which was not above anchorage . as the longwall progressed through the fall area another fall took place that fell from the tips of the number 1 and number 2 shield outby with rock falling on to the crusher part of the stageloader . no injuries occurred .
employee was operating the dryer plant when quality control requested a sample . employee went to get a sample from 4 '' diameter   pipe designated in the sampling plant . he was unable to obtain a sample . he removed a 1 '' diameter bolt , put his right index finger up into a moving screw ; his finger was taken off to the first joint by the screw .
employee was operating manlift and caught 2 fingers of his right hand between the guard covering the lift controls and the back . injury resulted in laceration requiring stitches .
member was shoveling the high-line tray out on an addcar . he placed his right foot against the end of the guide and it got caught between the guide and the pusher jack .
unintentional roof fall . fall was 50 ' long , 18 ' wide and 6 ' high . type of support : 4 ' resins bolts . number 2 entry ( neutral entry ) 1 break outby spad number 10644 .
upon recept of doctor bills charged to workers compensation . we questioned employee and he claimed to have pulled a muscle in his chest while climbing onto drill .
victim stated while stepping up on a welder to check the diesel level , he slipped and fell off the welder and then hit his knee .
employee was lifting a pallet ( approximately 40 lb . ) from roller bed . due to past back problems , employee may have overcompensated during lift and strained his shoulder . employee did not lose any work days after accident . employee has experienced discomfort in shoulder and has opted to have surgery on shoulder . lost workdays have begun on first lost day due to that surgery .
employee was lifting tools from tool box . a can of `` electraclean '' degreaser was accidentally punctured and sprayed into face and eyes .
employee was using a utility knife to cut a piece of conveyor belting to be used as an airwall when the knife slipped cutting his right lower leg .
number 4 belt slipped in the head drive , causing minor smoke , before the drive shut off . employee stated that the smell caused him to be sick to his stomach . employee worked the remainder of his shift and went to the doctor the following morning .
employee was using a hammer to drive in a wedge over the cover on a drain and rinse screen . as he was making a strike , the hammer struck an overhead beam , causing the hammer to change direction and strike his left index finger . sutures were required to close the wound .
employee stated he was walking down a ramp when he slipped on some loosely ground material and fell to his knee . he received 6 sutures . employee admitted he has a bad hip and is awaiting hip replacement .
injured was stepping off of a conveyor when his footing gave way causing him to fall forward . he hit his shin on a sharp corner causing laceration that required stitches .
employee was picking a stone from a conveyor into a hopper when he pulled his little finger on left hand between the stone and a safety handrail . post accident drug test revealed positive result . employee was terminated as a result of drug test .
assembling pipeline in river and ring to attach pipeline together , fell on hand and broke thumb .
the employee bent half-way over with the intention of picking up a crib and felt pain in his low back .
two employees were moving an airslide when one of the employee's hands slipped , causing his finger to be caught between the lower section of the airslide and the grating . employee was wearing gloves when the injury occurred .
employee pushed the last bag down the line for the pallet and fingers got caught between the belt and rollers .
this employee informed his supervisor of injury in december 2001 but declined medical treatment . no action was taken by this employee until 8/27/02 , when injury caused him to stop working . injury reports completed   and submitted to this office 9/20/02 . medical treatment requested by doctor on september 4th and september 27th , 2002. no previous reports were given to this office prior to the above date. light   duty
roof failure in between intersection 6 and 7 entry of 3 left off 1 left mains between ss 357 and 367. no equipment or personnel involved , ventilation was not affected .
as the continuous miner was loading the end cut of the pillar block a pillar fall occurred catching the miner during retreat mining . location was at ss number 1322 number 6 heading of the number 1 panel off the number 2 northeast mains .
mechanic was helping install tracks back on a drill , watching the track and idler for clearance , employee heard a pop , then felt something hit above left eye . employee didn't realize was hurt until employee wiped face and saw blood . after employee got home , felt something there , went to primary care physician and a small piece of metal was removed . primary care physician gave employee a day off work .
a lid from a dredge pump fell on employee's finger employee was taking an inspection cover off dredge pump the cover ( lid ) slipped and fell on his finger mashing it .
employee sustained a laceration to inside of right elbow and back of right hand while pulling a loaded train into the crude ore dump pocket at the evtac plant . employee's arm was out of the window of the locomotive and was pinched between the locomotive cab and a trapping machine in the dump pocket .
injured employee was walking by an area where other employees were doing a belt splice . a metal fragment flew out from the grinding and entered the injured employee's eye .
while replacing a compressor on a chiller , a beam being used for hoisting slid off of its crossmembers . the beam slide into the leg of one of the workers causing a laceration to the lower leg .
two employee were drilling a hole in the mine floor with a hydraulic drill . the drill bit caught causing 1 employee to stumble and lose grip on the handle of the drill . the drill spun causing employee hand to become caught in the hand guard with employee hand stuck on the trigger . this employee   fell into conveyor feeder . this employee   taken to doctor and placed on restrictions .
a roof fall was found at 1 seam mains break . 26 between 3 and 4 entry , the fall was approximately 5' x 20' x 100 ' the area has been dangered and sealed off . the information was called to the safety director at 2:05 pm .
employee was operating the continuous miner , making a clean-up run on the right side of entry ( curtain side ) . he was stooped down and a piece of rock slid off rib , striking him on lower left side of back . went to doctor on 3-8-06. went back to doctor on 3-13-06 .
employee missed last step of stairs while descending a flight . strained knee .
employee was unloading a large load of 6 '' metal pipe from a trailer . he cut metal stakes on one side of the load using temporary support . then , he cut cross chains on the other side causing uprights   to snap . the load fell on employee .
pulling a transmission out from a kress truck . the drive line guards fell off the module and landed on my left upper knee . pushed it over my ankle to the floor .
employee was attempting to remove a hydraulic hose from 36031 backhoe . the bolts securing the hose were not easily accessible and this prevented him from being able to use an impact wrench . he ended up   using a break over bar and cheater pipe . as he was applying downward pressure , his hands slipped off the cheater pipe and it sprang upward and hit him in the mouth . the impact lacerated his lip and
moving a wooden block to secure a piece of equipment and employee stepped into a rut causing employee to drop block of wood on left foot . per phone call the foot was broken .
a roof fall occurred in the 2 north section off the 2 mains east in the number 10 entry number 2 cross-cut . the fall was 44 ' long 18 ' wide and 9-12 ' height . 6'-8 ' and 12 ' tension rebar bolts
employee was installing hoses on hydraulic tank when felt pain in shoulder/neck area . went to doctor for condition on 04/04/06 ; put on restricted duty .
employee tripped in loose rockdust and rocks at number 7 seal at 7-4 project and hurt his right knee .
employee was lifting the d ring on a running line to throw it over a timberhead . the rope was heavy and the employee jerked it to try to raise the line . the employee felt pain in his right shoulder   .
employee was prying copper plate off breaker bar n crusher with pry bar , pry bar slipped and employee hit left elbow .
north 5 18 block number 8 heading 4 way intersection mobile mining unit 004 . 7' high x 20' wide x 20' long .
employee was in the process pulling himself onto a small shed to hoist it out of place with a crane . the crane's cable abruptly swung right and back left jarring employee from his grip . employee fell approximately 4 - 6 feet landing on his right hand . the impact resulted in a broken right wrist .
rock fall at spad 2687 . 70 ' x 15 ' x 3 ' high . ' one side of fall was a slip . cleaned rock and bolted place .
as employee was advancing slider tube towards face he felt something pull in left shoulder .
employee was changing a bulb out on a drop light . he installed a 12v bulb instead of the 110v and the bulb exploded causing debris into his right eye
the injured employee , a coal hauler operator , was found laying on the ground holding himself up by his left elbow . the injured employee was in cross-cut 2-1 at station # 21+15 , when he was struck by a rock , that fell out between the roof bolts , and struck him on top of the head . the rock measured 10' long x 3' wide x 0-11 '' thick , and fell from a height of 7'11 '' .
the fire boss was making his examination when he discovered more air than usual on the belt line of the old section and when he investigated he found a roof fall . the fall was 16 ft wide 16 ft long and 7-8 ft high . the area was supported with 6 ft tension rebar .
employee was installing an outside troughing roller on a conveyer belt . i slipped and pinched finger to the roller frame . he sought first aid treatment for a bruise but later a fracture was discovered   .
employee received a hearing test 9/4/03 . results of the test was received from audiologist doctor dean harris 9-23-03 stating the employee has shown a significant shift in hearing from either the baseline hearing   test or the last annual test .
injured employee was removing a shaft from a speed reducer . as he drew the shaft out , he nipped the tips of three fingers on his right hand cutting the tip of his right middle finger , treated on site , sent to doctor for further evaluation where he received a few stitches on his fingertip and placed on left handed duty only until follow-up appointment on 7-14
employee was rockdusting the face area using a rock dust hose . he stepped on a lump of coal and felt something pop . diagnosed on 9/5/00 as a fractured ankle .
employee bent to grip lid and started to lift up to close and felt a sharp pain in left lower back . lid was on top of rail car .
a roof fall occurred in the number 7 entry , number 2 unit cross-cut 11. in the 1st eas off of the 1st north submain . long 25 ' x wide 18 ' x thick 11 ' . the roof was bolted with 10 ' double lock bolts .
maintenance techs were changing out sub adapter as retainer was broken at the hex head . welder cut old sub adapter off and techs proceeded to remove pin with pin punch and sledge hammer . the tech held the pin punch with left hand on the end of handle and right hand on the handle near the punch . the sledge hammer glanced off of the punch striking employee's right index finger and knuckle .
unintentional rock fall in number 1 entry intersection on number 27 break on 004 mobile mining unit . fall was cribbed and dangered off .
employee was assisting in putting a metal guard over a hydraulic jack on the take up on the 1 north b belt drive . while sliding the guard into place it moved unexpectedly and slid off the frame and caught the injured employees hand between the guard and the frame . this caused lacerations to both middle and ring fingers on employee's left hand .
standing on number 270 shield started pushing tailgate drive out , foot slipped off shield toe and instead of pushing the pan it advanced and caught his left foot . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , mining equipment/system was a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
while working in the area of tank 5 and 6 , employee was positioning a new water chute in place , when he removed the come-along on his side and the chute dropped and crushed his right hand .
employee alleges that while operating bobcat , the shovel caught on rebar sticking out of the ground causing jarring motion , leading to low back pain .
the employee was dragging a 1 inch was down hose through 1st floor of plant . the hose hung on a motor base . the employee felt pain in right side diagnosed with hernia .
employee was moving a 55 gallon   drum and twisted his back in the process . as he twisted he felt a pain in his back . injury is still bothering him , so medical attention was sought . now an mri is scheduled , became reportable on 8/10/2004 .
the employee developed carpal tunnel in his left and right hands due to repetitive motion . this claim in not yet determined by workers compensation . to be worked related .
unintentional roof fall occurred in number 3 entry of 005-0 mobile mining unit .
employee was walking down the catwalk towards the center of a well and turned toward a trash barrel . the wind blew something from the lid into his eye .
injured was striking a punch with a hammer and apiece of the punch chipped off and punctured into the injured's thumb . injured had to seek medical attention in that 3 sutures were required to close   the wound .
employee was handing piece of drill steel across roof drill when roof drill operator trammed drill forward , running over employee right foot .
employee was performing maintenance activities when his coveralls caught fire from being too close to portable propane space heater . burning coveralls caused the employee pants to catch fire and melt . employee recd 2nd   degree burns on his buttocks . space heater was inwork area because of excessively cold temperatures . 30 degrees when employee began shift
number 2 hoist had a hydraulic break . mine safety and health administration was notified at 9:42 pm , miners evacuated 9:30 am , and evacuation was complete at 9:40 am . hydraulic was repaired . tested , and miners returned underground at 1:00 am .
alleged incident was to have occurred while this employee was setting down a water pump after carrying it . he claims to have twisted his back and pulled muscles . cause of this injury was proper lifting techniques . compliance with rules/regulations is not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , personnel protective equipment was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor .
employee stated : was roof bolting and pulled left shoulder out of socket .
employee was trying to rotate a plugged pin mill feeder with a pipe wrench on the shaft when it broke free , causing his left middle finger to get caught between the wrench and feeder . it required 3 stitches to close the laceration and there was no lost time from work .
he was using a cut off bar to uncouple two motors . the coupler were on a bind , when they came uncoupled he caught his left ring finger between the cut off bar and the ear on the motor motor causing a laceration requiring 5 sutures .
the oakdale portal elevator was inoperable from 7:45 am to 12:25 pm . 1 employee was entrapped from 7:45 am to 8:15 am . no injuries . door switch caused contactor overload . repairs made by schindlers . elevator returned to service at 12:25 pm .
employee was panning 3rxc in panel m08 . he was lining up to match the left pan to the right pan before drilling hole . the left pan got out of line so he lowered the boom of machine to realign ; pan fell striking him on right forearm .
employee was manually adjusting a feed positioner ( 34 fp 02 ) and caught his right thumb between the rail and the chute . initially only fa applied . medical evaluation on 11/24 for swelling , reduced by incision .
employee was removing hose from steam cleaner . released pressure from water line . residual water in hose contacted employee's hand when employee disconnected hose .
on 05/03/07 , employee was cutting coal on mobile mining unit 003 in the number 8 left entry . while cutting coal , a rock fell from the roof between the rib and the first roof bolt . the rock was approx . 3 ' wide x 7 ' long x 2 '' to 3 '' thick . it hit him on the head and shoulders and rode him to the ground . the fall of rock caused a compressed disc and fracture to the lower back .
employee was lifting 5 gallon buckets of media to load number 3 tube mill , pulled area in back , resulted in restricted duty .
the brakes failed causing us to wreck . employee had contusion to head , broken , torn spleen , broken ribs .
opened front window of komatsu to overhead position and caught little finger in latch mechanism .
employee was installing a draw head onto a flat car when the accident occurred . as he was installing the pin , between the drawhead and flatcar , the pin smashed his left middle finger . employee went to the hospital where he received stitches .
member was prying up on a shuttle car tire using a slate bar . the slate bar slipped and the shuttle car tire fell on members left leg . note : employee worked until 5/22/09 and completed his shift .
cross-cut 2 - 1 at 7 break south mine section number 4 panel fall is approximately 7 ' - 9 ' high , 17 ' wide and approximately 45 ' long . cover 390 ' area bolted with 6 ' resin bolts and hole boards . a slip at 8 ' was visible after fall occurred . cross-cut will not be cleaned up . called state and federal hotlines .
employee was standing by the belt . a loader was pulling the belt . the chain broke and the chain hit him on . the hand breaking the index finger on his left hand . they were putting in a new belt line .
the employee was hanging rib mesh underground . he was looking at the roof and stepped on a piece of coal , which caused him to fall to the ground and land on his left knee .
employee was attempting to connect a short section of flexible four inch bulk hose to a rail car . the hose section was short which made it less flexible . when employee attempted to bend the hose into the connecting fitting , the hose recoiled causing employee to fall to the same level ( ground ) .
employee was stacking dust on pallet and a 50 lb bag of dust came off assembly , employee caught bag and went to swing it onto the pallet and tripped and caught self with left arm .
injured reported on 9/9/02 , while at the doctor's office , that he thought he hurt his right shoulder while at work . he didn't know when , where , or how . his shoulder started hurting on the night   of 9/7/02 and worsened on 9/9 . he went to the doctor and received medication and therapy . having mri on 9/13 . had surgery on both shoulders previously . workers compensation . says reocurrence .
injured employee was attempting to seal a leaking port hole on a cement silo . cement dust got under or around employee's safety glasses and into employee's eyes . employee rinsed employee's eyes thoroughly , but an hour later felt there was still dust or a scratch in employee's left eye so employee was taken to the doctor for additional care . employee received prescription eye drops for employee's left eye .
employee was running skiploader moving dust , it was windy and dust flew into employee's left eye .
employee exiting truck lost footing/balance letting go of ladder with right hand leaving left hand on railing briefly supporting body weight . employee taken directly to local medical center . injuries received ; straining of three fingers on left hand , left wrist , and left shoulder . employee released back to work on 5/05/2010 under limited duty , with therapy .
employee was prying on ripper chain with pry bar . the bar slipped and employee felt pain in his right elbow . employee did not miss any regular shifts until 11/30/04 . employee was restricted from working overtime .
employee was unbinding timbers to load on loadboy . when the last bind snapped it landed on his leg .
roof fall on the 2nd panel west off of the 3rd south 0+60 room # 6. the intersection was bolted with 5 ft resin bolts that have fallen out . this area will not be cleaned up and does not influence the passage of men or the air course . the fall measured 60 ft long , 19 ft wide and 6.5 in thickness .
weather was clear . employee was getting out of 1845 skidloader and twisted his ankle on bucket . coworker was standing on a screen catwalk , noticed employee limping and not in control of his balance . through hand gestures employee indicated he'd   twisted his ankle . coworker went to help him after finishing his task . employee said he twisted his foot and was dizzy trying to gain his footing .
employee was using a rebar to unplug a chute when his hand slipped and he cut his finger on the edge of the chute requiring stitches .
employee was walking and went to step up onto concrete pad ( 26 '' off ground ) when he slipped , turning his ankle . resulted in a hairline fracture .
the faces in 28k north and south were shot at 6:30 am . when the fire boss crew went underground to inspect the faces , they found gas discharging from several blast holes , and the gas was burning . after checking co and methane levels . supervision extinguished the flames . no resignation occurred .
filing under protest to comply with a citation from mine safety and health administration . an employee was tramming a motor through the south mains dip . an unattended motor that was up the hill drifted down and caused the collision . the following were not a factor : skills , proficiency , training and protective devices . rules , regulations and mining equipment were a factor .
employee was pulling self out of a rail car and heard shoulder pop . employee did not seek medical attention until 10/24/2017 . we are filing this 11/2/2017 within the 10 day reporting window .
a roof fall was discovered on the number 2 section , number 8 entry , 1 cross-cut out by spad # 464. the fall measures approximately   80 ft long by 20 ft wide by 6 ft high . no injuries resulted from this fall .
employee was loading 1 1/2 '' conduit in the back of a truck when a piece of conduit rolled off the top of the pile smashing fifth digit of right hand between conduit and bed of truck .
while walking to next grease point on the crusher the employee stepped into a hole and strained his knee . note : worker was originally injured 2/24/02 7001 report sent 2/18/02
unplanned roof fall in 6th northeast rooms 23 and 24. spad # 2698. the fall is 80 ' long and 20 ' wide and 3 1/2 ' - 4 ' high . the roof was bolted with 3 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was operating a continuous miner and was in the process of cleaning up the number 8 heading . he was standing between the 3rd and 4th row of bolts from the face when a piece of draw rock fell from between the bolts striking him on the head and coming to rest on his right   foot . this action caused a fracture of 2 of his toes on his right   foot . the rock measured 52 '' long x 23 '' wide x 2 '' thick .
miner operator   started put his knee down on mine floor , and bumped his knee on a rock .
employee filed an alleged occupational pneumoconiosis claim on 11/24/08 , claim no . 2008036353. received notice on 12/5/08 .
employee was cleaning around secondary-loading material in the wheel barrow pushing wheel barrow : foot slipped out from under him - fell on his bottom and hit head on concrete .
employee states that while removing nut off packing gland she strained right wrist she was treated by nurse 4 x between december and may . still having pain was sent to doctor on 5/9/01 . she was given prescription medicine   and plastic wrist splint by doctor .
an unintentional , non-injury roof fall occurred on the 002 section number 5 , one break in by spad 3862 that measured 25 ' wide x 25 ' long and 10 ' high . area was timbered off , bolts have been installed , jacks and beams set and 16 ' roof bolts installed in adjacent entries .
employee was washing built up material from underneath a screen crusher , conveyor belt combination with a high pressure water hose , he was struck int he forehead over the left eye with a stone , which resulted in an abrasion and swelling to forehead .
employee was working with a crew of 6 people unloading bags of anfo and saran explosives from the container to the magazine container when he started to feel discomfort in his back . he continued working and thought that the discomfort would go away . by the end of the work day employees lower back ached . employee sought medical attention on 11/28/08 .
employee was helping make a belt splice and using a power rivet driver installation tool , and got smoke/residue in his eye . report submitted to terminate citation number 7040533
employee was inside vsi crusher changing shoes out . shoes have to be lowered in from the top by a space in crusher , you can not step while turning your body , all you can do is twist your torso . employee didn't report this until 6-26-01 .
employee ( retired ) received a workmen compensation award for occupational pneumoconiosis
our employee was attempting to step off trailer onto truck chassis when knee bucked , causing employee to fall to the ground . this resulted in a fracture of the shaft of the right fibula .
employee was cleaning compact wheel . he hit his finger with hammer when his hand slipped from chisel .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 8 return air entry 2 , 900 ' outby the active section at spad # 3485. the fall did not affect passage of men or air flow . the fall measured 25 ' long , 20' wide and 4'-6 ' high .
a roof fall was found in the unit 1 travelway at cross-cut # 7. our plan is to reroute the travelway , and all entries to the fall will be propped and cribbed .
while putting a water line together , employee tightened a clamp with ratchet and the ratchet slipped causing him to cut his right little finger .
using 2 come-alongs   to lift tilt cylinder for installation . cylinder slipped through chain on 1 come-along and fell . left thumb was caught in the chain of the other come along causing a laceration
employee was assisting another employee with a bearing housing . the 7 1/2 '' bearing housing was being manually lifted into position when employee felt pain in lower back .
while operating number 41 992 k cat wheel loader loading production haul trucks , the injured employee was observed by one of the truck drivers as being in a stroke like condition .
an unintentional fall occurred in the 1st north submains . the fall was 80 ' x 18 ' x 8 ' . the fall fell in the 24+20 ' intersection and went outby for 80 ' .
was bolting number 5 heading when a rock fell from top striking employee in right leg .
the employee stated he was replacing bottom rollers on the section belt inside the take up when he stepped on the cross member he slipped and twisted his right knee .
haul truck dumped load of rock into crusher , big rock slid down into ( right ) front side of crusher cab striking corner . it knocked employee against window causing pain in right shoulder , upper and lower back . lost time began 11/05/01 .
on november 23 , 2016 , at the start of day shift an underground miner entered the 2-5551 s to retrieve a can of paint . as employee was doing the work place inspection while entering this area , employee noticed a fall of ground and called the supervisor .
unintentional , non-injury roof fall occurred in the number 1 entry 90 ' inby spad 1815 in the intersection . fall measured 19 ' wide by 19 ' long x 7 ' - 8 ' high . ventilation was not affected . fall will be cleaned up and area supported by cribs .
employee was striking one hammer with another hammer when a piece chipped off and struck employee in right leg . employee had metal removed 9-20-02 , requiring 4 stitches .
employee was working under walkway and looked up , dirt from the walkway above fell and got into employee's right eye . he repeatedly flushed his eye , was examined by an emergency medical technician then taken to the clinic and was given a prescription , and returned to work .
employee was lowering a submersible pump into a precipitator tank when he stopped and allowed it to free fall . the pump started to free fall too fast when he attempted to flip the stop back . unsuccessful   , he then tried to grab the crank handle when the jammed his thumb . on 1-5-01 , employee had surgery on his right thumb .
injured was tightening bolts on a clamp with an impact wrench when the wrench slipped off bolt striking injured's left forearm . saw physician 2/7/05
in the process of removing a saddle stand from an 18 '' rubber pipe a millwright got his right hand and left thumb caught between the saddle and the pipe causing a fracture , contusions and lacerations   .
while on break , employee attempted to light an illegal firework . witnesses state as the firework exited the pipe launcher , it exploded and struck him in the chest . the dupage county bomb squad and romeoville   police department investigated this incident immediately and confiscated all the illegal devices before allowing the company to perform an investigation .
the employee was trying to straighten out a 16 foot cable bolt when he slipped and twisted his back .
employee was hand tightening a bolt into a final drive flange on a final drive . his index finger was cut above the knuckle by a sharp edge on the flange . ( index finger right hand three stitches . )
employee's left shoulder has been hurting for several months . today he went to doctor sisk who gave him an injection of cortizone and requested that employee be assigned to light duty for ten days .
employee was pushing a rollback chute when he felt a strain in his right shoulder and neck .
employee was changing a fuse - forgetting he had not turned off the electricity . he put his finger in the fuse hole and got zapped with 440 volts of electricity .
employee was unloading scoop outside that had water line on it , when he stepped on a piece of highline cable laying on ground - twisted his right ankle . went to doctor and missed 1 shift .
employee was removing saw wires from a block of granite that had been sawn when the end of the roughback broke free , fell and hit employee on the neck causing a laceration , and employee's right hand causing a contusion .
the employee was using a chain ratchet to pull bracket back in place . the ratchet chain slipped causing material to hit the side of the injured employee's face and eye .
the area where employee was bolting had some loose and flaky draw rock . he was attempting to put two drill steels together and apparently a loose piece of rock moved or fell and made him try to juke out of the way . somehow his hand became caught between the steels and he ripped his hand out from between them .
employee was assisting maintenance during kiln outage , replacing belts on number 1 cooler fan . employee caught middle , left finger between belt and sheave . he was seen by a doctor who cleaned and bandaged the wound . an x-ray revealed a fracture between the tip of his finger and his 1st knuckle . no stitches were required . employee was given a tetanus shot and returned to restricted duty .
the roof started working at spad # 22+20 on mobile mining unit 006. shortly after the roof started working it fell in entry numb 8. the fall was approximately 18 feet wide x 100 feet long x 12 feet high . the fall was at 11:34 am and was called in at 11:47 am .
employee tripped over 3 ' waterhose after filling water tank straining his upper back . employee received vicoden from doctor making this reportable .
found fall in number 1 number 2 intersection 4 breaks inside on he shift monday morning 140 ft outby face .
employee was setting timbers and cut his right thumb on a sharp rock .
employee was bagging 50 lb bags .
employee was grabbing a tire at the discharge end of the tire head belt into kiln , with a grab hook the tire fell pulling his right hand forward and striking it against the handrail . he was taken to rmc where he was treated for a laceration and slight fracture to little finger on his right hand released to work
project includes installation of belt structure -- employee was using a stoper drill in the roof , felt pain in lower right back , he thought it was a kidney stone . employee went to his doctor and was told it was not kidney stones , but a back injury .
employee was using a pry bar to align bolt holes on an air slide . the pry bar slipped and grazed his cheek causing a laceration requiring stitches .
methane bleeder encountered ; methane ignition alleged to occur . extinguished quickly ; no injury or damage . no citations issued . note : this was phoned in to the 800 # for mine safety and health administration .
at approximately 10:15pm 2/7/09 a natural gas explosion/fire severely damaged the lab and office bldg . natural gas leaked from either a heater or gas supply line to the heater . no injuries or fatalities resulted from the incident . the adjacent cement plant heard the explosion , called the fire dept . and made the first mine safety and health administration notice . a second mine safety and health administration notice was made by systech to ( 800 ) 746-1553 .
occupational hearing loss claim . claim received 1/18/02 .
employee was grinding on the ware metal of the volvo loader bucket . he was wearing safety glasses and a shield , but he was grinding a piece over his head and got a metal fragment in his left eye .
employee was removing a tail shaft wheel at unit 2 gate . when the wheel did not come loose , the employee used wedges to help pry . when the wheel did come loose , it hit the employee in the left face and shoulder , resulting in stitches to lip and cheek . employee returned to work for next scheduled shift .
the employee stated he and a coworker were delivering a bundle of 2 '' x 8 '' x 14 ' wood headers to a cross-cut in the 2 east mains section by use of a battery powered scoop . he got in the scoop bucket to unhook the chain holding the bundle . he had his left hand resting on the headers , bent over with his right hand to unhook the chain when a piece of coal rib ( 6 '' x 12 '' x 14 '' ) fell , striking hand
while walking on leach dump , injured tripped and caught himself , resulting in a lower back muscle strain . on 3/14/01 the injured felt the lower back tighten . the doctor prescribed physical therapy on 3/14/01 , making this incident reportable .
employee was attempting to insert 8 '' plastic pipe into the pipe fuser . as the pipe slid forward , employee got right little finger between the pipe and the fuser . finger was lacerated requiring stitches at the emergency room
employee was replacing the cap on his bottle of juice and felt a pop in his wrist . an emergency medical technician examined him , recommended x-ray at emergency room . employee stated he preferred to see his md . on 10/26 , employee notified the company he had been referred to an orthopedic doctor and taken off work . ongoing .
pouring oil in the used oil tank , twisted lower left arm . ( april 16 , 2009 went to doctor for check up on left elbow no follow up necessary and no restriction ) . by 320091130025
a roof fall was found when the weekly examiner was walking the intake air course for the 1 right 2 west ; fall was in the block between cross-cut   268.25 number 7 entry . it was 30 ' x 18 ' x 5 ' high ; it was in an outby area and did not affect ventilation or cause property damage , but did block primary escape route . the route was moved to number 6 entry ; it was caused by a slip in the sandstone .
employee was washing shields down . shear was tramming to tailgate . rock was in bibby chain when shear was tramming . it pulled rock between chain and pan . rock broke off , struck employee over the right eye . stitches were required .
2 breaks inby number 2367 , 70 ft long 16 ft wide 3 1/2 ft thick . will bolt with 6 ft fully grouted .
employee has had recurring shoulder pain from an old injury and has been under a chiropractor care he began losing time 12/28/00
employee strained left shoulder while throwing a grappling hook to fish out a cable in the lake .
the elevator at patterson creek portal was out of service due to a malfunction with the slow down switches . the elevator was reset and returned to normal service .
employee was taking d-7 to shop to fuel and service . he had to travel down a steep incline at back of raw material shed . employee had the dozer in a high gear as he went down steep incline , the blade went into   ground stopping the equipment . employee's head hit the windshield busting the glass and injured employee .
employee was taking a 2.5 gallon can of oil off of a stack , turned and felt pain and a pop in his lower back .
mechanic was performing service work on machine . while pulling on hydraulic hose , he pulled a muscle in his right shoulder .
5-a section supply track - employee was transferring belt structure from a rail carrier to a unitrac and caught his right thumb between two pieces of belt structure .
employee claims that while lifting a trash bag from a trash container , felt pain to left groin area . employee stated trash bag was primarily filled with paper products and not very heavy . employee was initially diagnosed with a muscle strain and continued to work . hernia operation on 3/28/00 .
employee was moving fully loaded 55 gal drums from the lowered grinder floor . employee was trying to roll the drum from a tight area and dropped the drum on his foot . the drum hit his foot on the area above his steel toe .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st north main in the number 4 entry ( supply road ) at spad # 65+10 inby to spad # 66+50 . the fall was 120' long x 18 1/2 ' wide x 6' high .
employee was working on roofbolter was bent over stab jack when piece of draw rock ( 3' x 3' x 1-2 '' ) fell out between roof bolts striking him on back ( upper ) of shoulder ( right ) .
packaging operator was struck on palm of right hand by b4 bulk bagger arm when the bolts holding the bulk bagger arm broke allowing bagger arm to move in downward motion . operator received a puncture wound to palm of right hand requiring 6 stitches . employee reported back to work without lost time on restricted duty .
the man was assisting in preparing to install a roof strap . the strap slid and struck the man on the chin .
employee was cutting a cut of coal in 5 ' cross-cut and a piece of bit broke off and came back hitting him in the left side of the neck that resulted in laceration ( 4 sutures ) . ( the mine was down from 11/19/09 till 11/30/09 for the holiday ) .
employee was welding and he struck his finger with a hot welding rod .
employee attempted to reinstall an air conditioner vent louver . employee placed fingers beside and over the edge of the louver trying to hold the screw so employee could screw the louver back on . the louver abruptly turned resulting in right middle finger and right ring finger to make contact with the squirrel cage fan . employee suffered a laceration and received 5 stitches to the right 3rd finger .
employee stated that he was putting up a bolt in the face of number 7 entry as he touched the top with his drill steel , a rock fell from the top , striking his upper arm . the employee suffered a laceration that required sutures .
employee was spraying penetrating oil on rusted bolts , lost footing fell approximately   8 ' striking back on frame of conveyor on the way to ground .
employee was operating a roof bolter when employee tried to catch drill steel that was falling out of hole and struck left hand against the drill pot causing left pinky finger to become dislocated . this did not result in any lost or restricted days .
a roof fall in the 7 west entries at number 39 cross-cut in number 3 entry measuring 40' x 20' x 5 ' . the area was mined in november 2002 and supported with 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts and was caused by a hidden slip
motor generator set that generates direct current power for the production/man hoist would not synchronize . problem appears to be temperature related . item was reported to dustin creley who was on-site doing quarterly inspection .
a process attendant received minor irritation to the eyes when hydrated lime inadvertently flushed out of a port when a cap fell off . the employee was attempting to unblock a chute by using a threaded pipe when the cap was accidentally hit and came off . prescribed eye drops were given to the employee for the prevention of infection .
employee was getting on a hitachi backhoe when he slipped and fell on his left elbow
employee was putting accutrak in panline and his left forefinger got caught under the accutrak . employee fractured his left forefinger .
employee opened a door to clean out screw and pinched his fingers when he swung it out . he got 5 stitches on his finger where it was cut . he is expected to get full recovery .
on 5-31-01 employee reported having pain and numbness in his wrists . he sought medical attention , and on 6-21-01 he was diagnosed with chronic rhinosinusitis and is scheduled for surgery july 9 , 2001 .
placing 18 '' rock into ditch , attempted to break rock with bucket of 345 trackhoe by hitting rock , this jarring the excavator resulting in strained neck and back . original electronic document # 266042*
on 1/5/11 employee was taken to the company clinic and was placed on restricted duty . the employee attempted to remove the right outside tooth from the bucket of a loader with a 4 lb . hammer when a metal fragment chipped off and entered the right knee . the employee was diagnosed with a foreign body to the knee .
opening feed gate and h2s gas came out of gate . employee was overcome by gas and passed out .
employee was unhooking the bolts off the vertical shaft impactor and when employee was getting down instead of using a ladder like employee was asked to use twice employee just jumped down a 2 foot drop .
employee stated that he was lifting roof bolts from the bucket of the scoop to load onto the right side roof bolt machine when he felt pain to the lower left part of his buttocks . he was diagnosed as   having a lumbar strain .
employee strained his right calf while he was climbing in the rock breaker .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee . he last worked on 7/2/2014 . no % disability at this time .
employee was struck with piece of coal while installing monorail hangers .
walking from dozer to manbus tripped on dirt winrow . first lost work day 4/17/01 .
employee was removing an overhead chain fall ( hoist ) from the rigging , standing on 6 ' step ladder to reach the unit hanging overhead . the chainfall safety latch caught on the rigging causing the employee to pull on the unit . the unit became loose causing the employee to lose his balance causing him to fall approximately   4 ' from the 6 ' step ladder landing on his right arm .
she was in restroom but did not see what bit her
employee pulled on an air hose that had become hung on catwalk structure . when it came loose , he struck his left elbow against angle iron on catwalk handrail . he suffered a bruise to his left elbow and was placed on restricted duty on 7-22-02. he was released for fully duty 7/26/-2 .
a miner sustained a fracture to right ankle when employee tripped and fell . the fall resulted from the six lanyard that was attached to the full body harness getting hooked on employee's left leg as employee was moving into the work area .
driven by high winds , a power line disconnect switch located at pole number 80 on the north side of pit 15 - arced igniting dry grass . when the fire was discovered a 657 scraper , 16g blade and wildland truck contained and extinguished fire in 1 hour 10 minutes .
opening slide gate to drain water from feeder area , employee slipped bumping elbow on front end loader side arm that attaches the bucket to the loader .
fueling 785 b truck - standing on ladder . ladder slipped and employee twisted right knee .
employee left knee was struck with cmi cone as employee was hooking it to a hoist and it slid off the cart .
prying on a drive shaft with a bar on a d11n . the bar slipped and the employee hit his elbow on the d117 . right elbow
employee was using a rope and well wheel to pull 6 '' x6 '' steel plates to an upper floor . this activity caused a strain to his lower back .
employee was working approximately   20 feet from where fork truck was removing stone when a piece of stone approximately   8 '' in diameter flew from the fork truck and struck employee in the right hip . no first aid was required . bruising occurred and a minimal amount of swelling and tenderness .
as the day shift pre-shift examiner entered the mine property conducting employee's examination ( around 4:45am ) , employee noticed the number 314 dozer engulfed in flames . the machine had been parked for about 11/2 hours after the conclusion of evening shift . there was no one else on the property at the time of the discovery of the fire . employee immediately reported the fire on the 1-800 number .
employee was attempting to unplug a coal chute . he stated he was swinging a sledge hammer side ways when he felt a pull in his right shoulder . diagnosis right shoulder strain , placed in a sling for support . restricted duty .
employee was holding a cinder block while another employee was driving it into a stopping , hammer struck employee's left index finger resulting in a fracture .
while using a rivet gun to conduct clean up under number 5 digester unit . the 18 '' rivet gun bit broke , fell forward and struck the employee on the top of his right foot . the force caused the bit to cut through the boot and punctured the employee's foot . employee was taken to onsite medical facility where he was treated and released . employee was placed on restricted duty on 10/10/12 .
employee was walking along and tripped and fell . could find no obstructions to cause the fall .
employee was removing a jack stand from underneath a forklift that he had been working on when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . employee was sent for medical attention , and was placed on restrictions , and referred to an orthopedist for further evaluation .
employee was using a 3' bar to loosen a silo valve . this valve had been incorrectly tightened and employee strained his left shoulder while pulling on bar to loosen the nuts . employee reported injury on 10/4/0 2 but did not request medical attention until 11/14/02 and at that time was put in work hardening program with restrictions .
employee was trying to hammer in a arm pin on his loader he had one foot braced on the finder and one on the frame with his back braced against the hydraulic tank and slipped and fell .
at approximately at 8:00 am on 2/5/2010 , injury was pulling auger sections out of the extruder along with number 1 employee , number 2 employee and number 3 employee . injury was taking the augers and tossing them on the ground . he had tossed 3 augers and switched places with number 2 employee . he started feeling discomfort after 10 minutes of switching with number 2 employee .
i was stretching and climb in the ladder to get to the cab on my loader , and pulled something in my lower back .
employee taking a piece of pipe up to tank and was talking to another employee . employee turned around and ran into a piece of steel overhead , extending out into walkway .
employee was greasing secondary crusher and dryer ( secondary crusher and dryer ) l-150 d loader and slipped on snow/ice and landed on right shoulder . employee decided not to go to see a doctor until 2/17/2007 . reportable due to restricted work duty days starting 2/17/2007 .
employee was restacking a pile of pallets . when lifting some pallets the weight twisted in left hand . left thumb slowly became painful and was swollen by the next day . treated with prescription meds only   .
employee was attempting to cut out a triangle piece of a conveyor belt . he cut the first two sides of the triangle and pulled that piece back so the third side would be easier to cut . as he cut towards   himself with a utility knife , he was unable the blade before it cut his abdomen . he received three stitches on the same day of the accident , march 4 , 2004 .
employee was walking on belt that was down , belt was wet and muddy . he was going to cut belt into with his knife . knife was open . employee slipped and fell on it .
employee stated employee was laying rail on 1 section when employee felt pain in stomach . employee later sought medical attention on 4/15/2017 and was placed on restricted duty . this incident will be reported as restricted duty .
mechanic and drill operator were removing teeth from the bucket of the excavator using an 8 lb   sledge hammer to jar the teeth while the injured employee used a bottle jack to push on the pin piece of the hammer . the head came off and flew into the employee's left hand between his first two fingers .
using air lance to clean between lime conveyor idlers , material shot back at employee and as he turned his head a piece of lime got through his goggles causing irritation to the eye . sent to occupational doctors checked   him and applied medication . gave him a prescription for ointment to apply to eye .
employee was pulling 1 1/2 '' rubber hose under the d-40 thickener to the 50' underflow washout . employee was pulling the hose at his side when he felt a sharp pain in his lower back . ( prescription for physical therapy daily for one week ) .
main e unit - employee was attempting to install top right rear cover on miner . pushed cover , injured/twisted right knee .
employee slipped on a rock while installing a roof bolt . this resulted in a torn anterior cruciate ligament and swelling of the knee . he had his knee drained . employee has had no lost time but will require surgery in the future .
employee was loosening bolts on the motor when his ratchet slipped causing him to feel pain in his lower back . he did not cease working until 1/2/01 at which time he was instructed by a doctor to remain   off work . note : this report is late because of an oversight on paperwork
officer performing his patrol ; he misjudged a corner and drove over the berm . the vehicle tipped on side , deploying side airbags . employee climbed out window , walked app . 2 miles back to mine . upon arrival at security he passed out . mine emergency medical technicians were called and employee noted as being unconscious . all vitals were strong , and employee taken to hospital . employee released with no medical treatment or restrictions .
employee was walking up stairs of haul truck , both hands on handrails , lost footing , stumbled and hit right knee on grating . seen by provider , released to restricted duty on next scheduled shift .
during a belt splice an employee was lacing the machine on top of belt while another was advancing the machine and ran out of room about halfway across . victim climbed on board , grabbed frame of   splice rig , reached over with his right hand , and placed it on top of frame as lacing was progressing . victim's thumb was in the way and the tip got severed .
experienced problem at 5pm but did not happen again , made guide check found dog brakes . replaced northwest dog , northwest dog linkage arm ( top ) both northwest and southwest linkage arms ( bottom ) . replaced northwest dog mounting bracket complete shined top west guides 1/8 '' , oiled guides on cage and counter , weights used slope hoist till noon 2/5/05 .
a second fall occurred this date on 10-01-4 out by break number 26 110 in by spad . 5 ' by 20 ' by 30 ' . additional support put in location around area and beam and jack put in belt tract entry .
at approximately 11:10 pm , e28 longwall intersected an uncharted gas well at 82 shield at 116+45 . accident code for inundation was chosen because there is no option for uncharted gas well .
employee was walking to his roof bolter . as he walked around the corner he struck his left knee against the bolter . the accident was not reported to the operator until 9-9-03 after the employee had already   received medical treatment .
shop foreman slipped on ice outside of shop and fell . left ankle was twisted and strained . scraped right knee . did not require doctor visit date of incident . he requested doctor visit on 2-15-07. doctor diagnosed minor swelling and prescribed tylenol as needed and follow up doctor visit on 2-26-07 .
during repairs on the longwall a mechanic felt a pop in back as employee pushed on a 30 mm end wrench . employee returned to duty . on 3/27/2017 this mechanic sought chiropractic care , identified as medical treatment by the yellow jacket and converting it to a medical treatment case on that day .
employee had a laceration that required stitches at hospital . employee was using a chisel and 4 lb hammer when the chisel or a piece of the hammer splintered off and went into left leg .
unsure , may be pulling water hoses , driving and everyday activities ; has been ongoing since late june . employee feels numbness , tingling , an arthritic feeling in the left hand .
employee was holding an s hook in right hand to guide 480 volt power cable onto reel . as cable was rolling , it jerked , pulling employee's right hand and arm into the cable reel . employee pulled hand and arm free ; xrays at emergency room were negative for fracture , employee released to full duty . upon follow-up with doctor employee referred to orthopedist and placed on restricted duty beginning 10/13/05 .
employee had just finished loading the roof bolter , when a piece of rock fell from the top and struck him across the thighs of both legs , causing some bruising .
employee attempted to reattach the bucket onto the skid steer . at this time employee placed himself between the bucket and the skid steer . the bucket was raised approximately 12 inches off the ground . the bucket fell off the boom striking the employee in the back of both heels . this resulted in bruises to his heels and the doctor prescribing vicoden for pain .
employee was trying to dump a load of rock . rock was wet and frozen inside trailer . hydraulic cylinder broke and trailer fell on cab of truck .
employee was tending the cable for the miner and as he pulled on the cable he strained his back .
miner man was setting bits on miner , he had set 3 or 4 bits he set head of miner down on his foot , outside bit came through top of boot ( beside steel toe ) bit hit toe next to big toe on right foot   causing a cut requiring stitches on toe . no fracture .
employee was putting up a 6 ' torque tension bolt . he was using fast feed . the bolt caught the roof strap causing it to bend and broke the nut off of the bolt , sending the 8 '' x 8 '' plate flying and striking   him on the left side of his face .
injured was looking for the phone line . a rock fell out between roof support , hitting employee on side of head and shoulder , causing bruise on top of left shoulder .
employee was getting on a caterpillar forklift when he struck the outside of his right knee on the corner of the cab of the forklift .
after helping clear an obstruction in the feeder hopper , employee was struck in the head to the rear of his hard hat by a rock that fell off the conveyor . employee came to the office and asked for aspirin and told what happened . he said he was ok   and returned to work . one and one half hours later he asked to go to the doctor for x-rays , etc .
unintentional roof fall . main east number 1 intake 136 to 137. bolted with 8 ' tension rebar . 15 ' long x 18 '' wide x 8 ' high . propped around . will not be cleaned up .
employee was putting a pump on a haul truck . at a later date he stated he had hurt his back . he stated he had hurt his back on 12/26/02 . he did seek medical attention on 2/24/03 .
employee was attempting to roll v-belt on shaft with a wrench . he lost his footing and he put his hand out to catch himself . his hand then went under the shaft .
employee reported that he had an irritation in his left eye . he attempted to remove the speck that could be seen , then an emergency medical technician flushed the eye repeatedly . he was taken to an optometrist , and a piece of metal was removed . he was returned to work with no restrictions .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred at the 27+20 ' in number 2 entry of unit 2. the fall measured 40 ' x 18 ' x 6 ' . no one was injured , passage of men not affected , ventilation not affected . fall was   due to adverse roof conditions .
injured had climbed upon the back of a mechanic truck to connect a air hose to a grease gun . he stooped down and picked up the hose from the bed floor . after he raised up to make the connectio n , he felt a burning sensation in the back of his lower left leg .
an additional ventilation was installed for the number 1 entry of the fifth right development section . one shuttle car was loaded on the left side the continuous miner was moved to the right side . as   it began to cut a methane feeder was ignited . the flare-up was extinguished with rock dust . this section has encountered a fault and methane is being liberated in this area . flare-up was approximately 20 seconds
employee was walking out of lunchroom when he lost his balance and twisted his right knee .
employee had finished loading anfo and was in the process of wrapping up the on/off control valve hose . employee's feet got caught in the hose and he fell to the ground . employee was evaluated and diagnosed with a right upper arm contusion .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on a mains at survey station 880. the fall extended from number 6 intersection through 6-7 cross-cut into number 7 intersection . approximately   80' long x 18' wide x10' high . contained 6 ' resin bolts and 10 ' cable bolts . the area was developed 12/98 . fall dangered off and floor and roof supports added at the approaches . the fall will not be cleaned up .
unintentional roof fall occurred 40 ' inby spad number 2803 , number 5 entry , 1st right , 2nd north east mains 003 section , 600 ' out by 4-b tail . bolted with 6 ' torque tension bolts , 20 ' wide x 20 ' long x 6 ' high . slicky sided big slip .
employee was painting guards when a piece of metal flew into his eye . employee was wearing safety glasses . the metal was removed , but the employee received a prescription .
employee slipped while getting out of scoop deck ( lost his balance ) tried to catch himself with his left hand , employee left hand hit ground first thumb or hand sprained backwards causing pain .
employee was putting breaker in at number 3 belt drive , short circuit on secondary bar .
the employee was removing lay flat hose from rockdusting machine . the hose became tangled or caught on the machine . he `` jerked '' the hose in an attempt to free it . strained abdomen .
employee was using a cutting torch to cut a steel beam , approx . 200 lbs , 5 '' wide , about 1 foot from the ground . as employee was cutting the beam , it shifted and fell across both feet . employee right 2nd toe was fractured and employee sustained contusions to both feet .
employee was driving a company pick up when it overheated . the employee stopped the vehicle and started to remove the radiator cap . the employee then closed the cap and then reopened it and received 2nd degree burns on his arm between his wrist and elbow on his right arm .
employee cut leg using a utility knife .
employee was lifting a grease drum up to drill deck . there were two employees on the drill assisting when the drum was let down on the deck before the employee had moved his hand from beneath the drum . the drum pinched the employee's left hand injuring the index finger .
employee slipped in the slope and heard a pop in his right wrist when he was catching himself . he was diagnosed with a fracture .
welder had been using air arc and had laid it down . he then removed his welding shield at which time air arc began to leak , blowing metal into left eye .
employee was prying up two hoses with a prybar when his footing shifted , causing the pry bar to strike him on the forehead .
a roof fall occurred in the screening plant in the mine . there were no injuries on any kind , no restriction to travel in normal work areas , no change in ventilation and as we understand definitions in 50.2 no reason to complete a 7000-1. mine safety and health administration did issue a 103j order on 09/29/204 . termination of citation/order number 8854245 was issued on 05/04/2015 .
employee was removing dust collector bags from silo number 1 ( 81010 ) . he was in awkward position and the bags were heavy . he strained his lower back . this injury required one day of restricted work activity on sat 3/12/05 . his regular work shift is wednesday through sat .
employee suffered a heart attack and passed away while on the job at 3:50 am .
the employee was attempting to clean an airslide in the mill dept . when they began feeling nauseous . the employee felt that they had gotten too hot during the 45 minutes that they worked on the airslide . the employee was treated at a local hospital for a heat illness and was placed on a work restriction for two days .
employee states while performing maintenance he sustained cement dust in his left eye causing irritation . employee received prescription from examining physician with follow-up visit to ophthalmologist .
employee was prep to clean the air conditioner of the control tower with the water truck but while exiting the truck employee stepped on a rock and sprained left knee . the employee sought medical attention on 7/24 and was diag with a sprain and released without rest . mri results were obtained which revealed a hairline fracture of the femoral condyle which made this as a medical reportable injury as of 8/7/17 .
the employee was helping to dismantle the dredge when doing so he moved a flanged pipe that slid and tipped out of the saddle pinching and severing the end of the employee's right thumb between the pipe frame and corner of the dredge cabin . the employee had surgery on 9-6-02 to pin bone on the end of the thumb .
employee was on a mantrip when the mantrip struck a timber causing a piece of draw rock to fall and his him on his right wrist .
employee was knelt down behind the miner picking up pull ropes that had fell off . the rib rolled out and struck him on the back of the head and his back . the rock measured approximately 80 '' long x 17 '' wide x 11 '' thick . he was transported to raleigh general hospital where x-rays were negative . he was released to return to work . due to continuing pain unable to return to work on 10/8/14 and 10/9/14
employee was descending steps and when he reached the bottom step he twisted his knee causing tendon strain . employee was placed on restrictive duty and provided medication .
employee . was spotting bits on miner . he was using a raw hide brass hammer and bit wrench , as he was coming down to hit the bit wrench , the outside of his hand between the knuckles and wrist came in contact with another bit . sent to er . positive x-ray for fracture , placed on restrictions .
employee was opening a package and cut hand with scissors .
based on the information received from those present it appears that the ignition was caused when the spark from the cutting machine shearer ignited an unknown methane bleeder while cutting ha rd rock middle man and coal at shield location number 56 with headgate drum mine safety and health administration notify timely .
while walking to the booster pump employee tripped on a water line and fell over onto the booster pump striking it with his right elbow and lower arm resulting in pulling the muscles in his right should emergency room .
employee was stripping the starter sheets for copper . the tool he was using was dull and he had to use more force with his arm to strip . arm was hurting afterward and got worse that evening . hurt from fingers to shoulder .
employee was cleaning a section of drill auger when his glove was caught and pulled employee's hand , wrist and forearm around the auger . employee shut down the auger and freed employee . employee received a hairline fracture   to wrist and doctor restricted work activity for 2 weeks at less than 10 pounds . anticipate full work release 4-21-00 .
the employee went to move the jackleg closer to the rib to avoid running over the jackleg with mobile equipment . as employee positioned the leg up against the rib left wrist struck a sharp rock cutting left wrist . the sharp rock was about 1.5 feet above the sill .
conditions consisted of water being sprayed onto steps by water truck , creating slight amount of mud on step . employee was walking into break room to get ice for his personal cooler . as employee walked up the steps , his left foot slipped in some mud .
injured complained of pain in the lower back while at work . there was no real incident . he didn't slip , trip , fall , strike or be struck by anything . after medical evaluation he was taken off work   for back strain . this is an occupational injury .
employee was driving a euclid ch-150 coalhauler in pit 11 f section when he hit a hole in the road jarring his back , road maintenance was ongoing at the time of the incident . on 8/11/08 employee was diagnosed with a herniated disk at l5-s1 in his lower back . employee is unable to work till further notice .
employee claims continued use of switches on remote control box cause pain in both hands ( carpal tunnel ) . medical report shows employee off work 5/10/00 for surgery .
employee was on a ladder checking hook on chain hoist . a ramcar came by and caught leg of the ladder knocking employee onto the tire of the ramcar .
as the employee was helping to install a pin to hold the grapple onto the equipment another employee was using a sledge hammer to pound the pin into place . the hammer glanced off of the pin striking employee in the face causing a contusion on the right side of face .
employee was changing bits on cutter drum of wirtgen 2200sm . he was wearing safety glasses but when he tapped a retainer clip to remove it , a small piece of metal ( apparently ) flew over his glasses causing a corneal abrasion . there was no metal found in his eye .
employee was building a permanent stopping . the mine floor was uneven and as he was positioning a 6 inch block , another fell from the stopping and struck him on the left hand and wrist . employee continued to work   until december 30th , when he contacted his supervisor to inform him that he would be off work until 1/2/2003 .
a rock fall was found during the pre-shift examination on the date and time stated in number 6 and 7. the fall was 60 ft long x 19 ft wide and 4 to 6 ft thick . the location of the fall was in the number   6 entry on the number   5 main at break number 12 .
the employee was closing the discharge valve using a 36 '' pipe wrench . as he was pulling down he experienced pain in his lower back . was evaluated at northeastern nevada regional hospital emergency room and given full duty release . employee was still experiencing pain , went to the doctor on october 7 and was given a restricted duty release beginning october 11 next scheduled workday - deeming this reportable per part 50 .
employee was operating a underground forklift . he attempted to put the forks under a bundle of bolts . it caused the forklift to raise striking his head against the roof . he continued to work until 9 -14-02. he was advised by doctor to remain off until 9-14-02 .
the resistor for the elevator brakes was open . had to order parts . no one was on the elevator at this time , corrective action , resistor was ordered as well as spares . elevator was operational around 9:00 am on 12/3/08 .
became reportable on 11-14-00 when employee began missing work as a result of this incident . employee slipped and fell off of a conveyor belt structure , a distance of 4 ' causing pain to his right   knee which was   later diagnosed as a torn cartilage . ( number 4 belt tail area ) .
injured employee was removing the lock ring on 4 1/4 crusher with a hydraulic ram another employee was cleaning off the distance   plate with a water hose . when the water splashed distracting the injured employee , the employee caught his left index finger between the wedge of the ram and tube of the ram .
while placing door on cooler discharge elevator caught little finger on right hand between door and opening .
on 11/2 the employee was assigned to clean out the scalping tower due to a backed up screen . he felt tightening in his back while shoveling and after lunch the pain became more severe . he reported it to his supervisor and attempted to work through the soreness for remainder of the week . he was taken to the clinic on 11/9 and was diagnosed with a back sprain and placed on restrictions .
timber skip hung up in raise , miner wiggled to move the skip down , there was 6 feet of slack cable above . timber skip released coming down on employee `` right '' big toe fracturing the big toe .
cold icy conditions 9 degrees farenheit .
miner was tramming scoop along number 5 entry ( travelway ) of black mains approximately   1800 feet outby the section . a brow of rock popped free of the rib and struck a 5 '' x 7 '' post that was 8 feet in length , causing it to fall into the kitchen of the scoop , striking the miner on the left side of his head .
employee was assisting a continuous miner operator when a section of roof fell . the coal section broke into smaller pieces when it came in contact with the shuttle car he was standing near . this caused a piece of coal approximately   3' x 3' x 6 ' to strike the injured employee from the side near his knee pushing his leg in a horizontal motion .
employee checking brake fluid levels , finger slipped , hit edge of casing right thumb laceration
a roof fall was discovered in the intersection of spad number 6718 on the old 10 belt panel . the fall was approximately 7 to 8 ' in height and the entire intersection . timbers were set and danger signs posted all approaches . no ventilation controls were affected . no employees or equipment were involved . a map of the area was sent to the local mine safety and health administration office .
on the 088-0 mobile mining unit 6 north mains section , an alleged ignition occurred - an orange flame , round in shape , 18 '' to 24 '' in size , lasting 2 to 3 seconds . self-extinguishing was observed . no injuries to persons or property .
employee was changing return rollers on the field belts . he strained the muscles in his back resulting in a back injury .
while walking in mud on the section he twisted his right knee . the injury was diagnosed as an anterior cruciate ligament tear on 12/18/02 .
helping employee take down tubing . coal rib rolled off and struck him on knee .
a miner was removing excess material from a conveyor belt and suffered a heat illness ( heat exhaustion ) . other miners were present and were unsure of the affected miners sickness , so ems was called as a precaution . the affected miner was hospitalized for approximately 3 hours and was administered fluids and iv .
the injured employee was rearranging miner cable on the mine floor when he fell backwards onto his back . the employee continued to work ; a few minutes later he stated he felt back pain . he was treated on the section and transported to the surface where an ambulance transported him to the local hospital .
employee was coupling rail cars to locomotive . when he noticed at the last minute that the draw heads were not lining up , used his left foot to push the draw head on the rail car . his foot slipped and was caught in the couplings , crushing his toes . three toes were surgically moved later that night . ( little toe and next 2 amputated - all proximal phalange . )
employee was trying to insert a 2 ml glass pipette into a dispenser when the pipette broke . the broken end of the pipette cut his palm and three of his fingers . he was taken to local hospital and received five stitches on his pinky finger .
employee slipped as he was getting in loader .
while looking over in old tool box with lid propped open , the lid fell shut and struck employee on back of neck .
while barring out a plugged sock , employee put the bar down and dropped it through the mesh on the walkway to a lower deck . he went down stairs to retrieve it and stepped in a pile of spillage on the   lower deck and twisted his knee .
employee was walking from the shifter's office toward the lab ( to start her shift ) as she came out of the shifter's office . and began to walk toward the lab , she walked onto an icy patch and lost her balance   . she fell back hitting her right shoulder and the back of her head . employee was taken to hospital ; for xrays . xrays were negative . employee was given an antiinflammatory and returned to work .
employee was walking up conveyor belt to clear any large boulders that might be stuck on shaker chute when he tripped and lost his balance from his own two feet . he hit the shaker on his left side of his chest . he got up and told his supervisor .
repetitive motion over long period of time . employee went to doctor on 4-4-05. reported this to me on 5-2-05 .
employee informed his foreman that he didn't feel well and had felt a pain in his right arm . foreman told employee he was going to drive him to california occupational services in modes to to have the situation checked out . employee said he preferred to go home and consult his personal doctor employee's doctor met him @ sonora hospital , ran some tests which indicated employee had major heart problem and had experienced mild hear
employee and co worker were replacing the roller on a dozer . the weld they had made to hold the bogey in place broke . this allowed the bogey to slip and catch his finger . no broken bones but he had   a deep laceration on his left index finger . several stitches were required to close the wound . he returned to work the next scheduled shift which was 8/26/01 .
had an unintentional roof fall on the 2nd pillar panel on west submains 40' x 20' x 4'   .
employee and coworker were carrying a 102 lb . electric motor up stairs . employee strained lower back .
employee stated he was walking back to his truck after a break , stepped on a rock and twisted his ankle . seen at the emergency room , diagnosed with a strain and released . employee requested more care . investigation confirmed on 08/27/2012 that this was a work related injury . reportable for lost time .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 1l mining section at 38 cross-cut . the fall measured approximately   32 ft long by 10 ft high by 26 ft wide . the fall occurred in the return intersection . there were no injuries or equipment damage as a result of this event
at 9:45am employee reported he saw another employee fall to ground as if passed out . employee found other employee lying on ground by bulk sack machine complaining of shortness of breath . 911 call made , when emergency medical technician arrived they check blood pressure and sugar level . sugar level low so they administered sugar through iv seem to become alert immediately . transported to hospital .
the alleged incident happened on 3/19/2010 employee stated on 3-23-2010 that he had twisted his ankle at work the employee did not tell the company or report it to anyone for a few days . there were no witnesses and he told no one he was ever hurt for four days .
employee lying on side using die grinder . debris entered corner of eye .
employee and his partner were moving the roofbolter his partner rotated the mast for clearance and his fingers were pinch by a steel that became bound up. the injured employee was helping free his partner's   fingers   when the steel flipped up striking him in his chest .
employee stated that while getting tools out of tool sled on the morris fork section a piece of daw rock fell out between roof bolts striking him on the head .
rock fall 4.5 ' to 5 ' thick , 20 ' wide , 50 ' long . number 7 entry 1 break inby spad 5460. will not be cleaned up . number 8 entry will be used as return .
employee was placing screen cloth in scalper screen . screen fell on right hand .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 8/7/01 in the number 2 entry ( neutral ) at break 123. fall was approximately 6' high x 18' wide x 20' long ( intersection ) . no injuries , no equipment caught , ventilation was not interrupted . the area had been bolted with 6 ' rebar tension bolts .
working in and around coal mines for 32 years . he was first diagnosed with compressed discs in his spine 5/3/00 . this was brought to my attention on 5/12/00 .
miner/employee was assisting in replacing new sand screw wear shoes when employee was repositioning the shoe to the shaft it slipped from his grasp and resulting in a caught between the sand screw tank wall and screw auger flight crushing/minor fracture injury to his left index finger .
employee and another employee were dismounting a frame the frame was on a bench 3 ft thick . part of the frame broke loose and fell off the bench onto employee's right foot . he did not see if coming at the time so he   did not move out of the way of falling part
4 south end of truck , he had taped a chain to roof bolt to push chain between pallets , then using a utility knife to cut tape off chain , as he pulled back on knife it came back and cut left thumb   . he was wearing gloves , sutures to close wound .
a roof fall measuring 19 ' wide x 16 ' high x 30 ' long . occurred on the jenny branch section near spad number   5094 .
the employee had just completed changing out a welding oxygen cylinder . the employee was placing the empty cylinder in the back of a jeep . he bent down placed his left hand on the bottom of the cylinder ; when he lifted he heard a pop and had instant pain in his left bicep . he was taken to the emergency room on the 27th , a specialist on the 28th and is scheduled for surgery on the 29th .
a fall of roof occurred in the 1st northeast submains in the number 7 entry in between number 6 and number 7 cross-cut . the fall was approximately 12 , 400 ' outby the unit and was approximately 30 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' . the area was supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
driver was tarping a load and the devise jerked his arm back
employee was loading cribs into a ramcar when he caught his finger between the crib tie and the bed of the car . medical treatment injury .
employee felt a `` pop '' in left shoulder while using a rubber mallet to strike a bag house ; resulting in left shoulder strain .
the employee was using a utility knife to cut a rubber conveyor belt , while doing so the knife case broke and the blade got out of its case cutting the external side of the right hand ( 1 '' cut ) . employee got stitches at the hospital and returned to modified duty the same day .
employee was turning off/on an electrical box when the box arced internally causing the latched door to swing open . the door hinges at the top of the box ; when it swung open it hit employee in the bridge of his nose . he was not electrocuted but there was an electrical flash . employee was bleeding from a cut on his nose and was taken to hospital for examination .
employee was changing cutting edges when one fell on his foot . he was seen at the emergency room and diagnosed with a fractured big toe . released to restricted duty that the site was unable to accommodate . lost time .
while tramming shuttlecar , injured hit a hole in the bottom causing him to bounce out of the seat and strike his head on bottom of canopy , hurting neck .
employee was trying to move a staircase from a wabco truck , that was on the ground on 1-6-04. he felt a sharp pain in the lower back .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st main west , number 5 entry , 41 cross-cut intersection . the fall measures approximately 18 ' long , 18 ' wide , and 10 ' high . the area was supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin   bolts and 12 ' cable bolts .
employee was tightening tail jack he let go of jack handle latch on jack was not latched and handle came back and struck man on head .
employee was roofbolting . a rock fell and he jumped out of the way . when he jumped out of the way he received a laceration from the roof bolt pan that was in his hand .
employee tripped on safety lanyard , caught himself on a loading stand , straining his shoulder . did not become reportable until 6/5/03 .
lifting a 300 lb metal box to be installed in chute with back hoe bucket and chain . box was not hanging straight after picking it up 3 ft , attempted to straighten box when the back end came loose   , box slid down leg and struck top of right foot , breaking 1 bone and chipping another .
the employee was struck on top of right foot by a rock that fell from between 2 shields .
employee began missing work on 6-20-01 complaining of numbness in his right   leg . he reported that doctor stated he has spurs in his back which area an occupational illness . final determination can not be ma de because of lack of medical information . corrected copy will be completed as soon as possible .
february mri revealed herniated disk . employee claims damage due to working at allentown cement over extended period of time .
2 '' airline blew apart , plus 2 '' water line , both under pressure .
the employee was pounding out a latchbar insert for a shovel bucket using a sledge hammer . a small piece of steel splintered off the insert and penetrated the inside of the right thigh . an incision was needed to remove the metal fragment and four stitches were required to close the affected area .
employee was removing brick from the kiln when a brick rolled over and pinched his right middle finger while at the same time he felt something pull in his left elbow .
employee was cutting the right side of # 4l , cut about 5 ' break went though he was backing up to set over , went rock fell and struck him in the head and shoulder .
while performing normal duties as a mechanic , the employee's right knee began to give problems . the repetitive motion of bending , kneeling and working on his knees has caused , over time , degenerative   joint syndrome weakening his right knee .
employee was carrying a rock , fell on his knee and twisted it .
employee was assembling radiator , turned to walk away , radiator assembly fell , striking employee on right lower shin about 4 '' above ankle .
while ascending the mill stairway , employee's left heel did not clear the edge of the last step , causing him to twist his left knee . employee did not report or seek treatment until 9/21/00 .
a 4 wheel atv was trespassing and ran off a bench where we were stripping . the atv had a driver and a passenger ( male and female ) .
employee had just begun the 2nd day of restricted duty from accident   in 2005. employee was operating the sand catching plant . the job involves opening and closing a valve periodically by using a lever which is manipulated on a horizontal plane to control flow of sand and water . employee heard something pop in his back when he moved the lever right to left . pain in back and left leg .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the mains section inby spad number 1742 in number 3 entry . fall measured approximately   300 ' x 20 ' x 8'-10 ' . passage of persons and ventilation not affected . fall area will be re bolted . continuous miner and power center involved
the employee was hanging miner cable to the coal rib and felt a pain in his right groin area . the examination showed a muscle pull . two days restricted duty .
after inspecting wash plant spray bars , employee lost his footing and caught himself with his left hand . this caused shoulder and upper arm strain .
a roof fall occurred in the south sub mains , number 11 entry , 3740 ' station . the fall was approximately 12 ' long , 10 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
employee was walking around a cable drag in the pit . he tripped on uneven ground , landing on his hands and knees , over power cable .
employee was injured while removing large salt chunk from belt conveyor system . when swinging a pick to break the chunk , the employee struck part of metal conveyor structure with hand .
injured employee was using a razor knife to cut tape off of a broken trolley pole when he lacerated his right index finger . the wound required 4 sutures to close .
employee stated he felt pain in lower back while pulling on rockdust hose . employee has prior back problem ; surgery in 2001 , missed 179 days . employee started missing work on 2-11-03 .
injured was diagnosed with arthritis , a condition that causes severe pain in his left shoulder . he first reported this condition on september 26 , 2003 but continued to work until he received medical   treatment and began losing time on 11-5-2003 .
after picking up a bucket of clips approximately   15 lbs employee extended his left arm outward to another employee to pass it to him . his arm failed lost all strength in his arm in an extended position .
employee was working on a conveyor in the quarry . he was pulling himself up the conveyor when he felt a pull in lower back . company was notified on july 8 that he received medical treatment - chiropractor care .
he was removing a hose band on a 3 '' rubber hose . the hose had factory installed fasteners that have to be removed by sawing off . he was sawing through the hoseband with a hacksaw . when he cut through , the fastener popped back and cut his left index finger .
employee was pulling pump cable slack up and got shocked from opening in the cable .
employee was trying to loosen and change a loader tooth with a sledge hammer when a piece of metal came loose and struck his abdomen .
employee was cleaning gob in an intersection with a powell scoop when a 4 ft metal strap flipped up cutting him above his right eye causing a small laceration . he received 10 stitches .
the number 1 conveyor belt chute at the ceredo dock plugged off with coal . employee was using a sledge hammer to hit the side of the chute on the upriver side of the middle level of the transfer structure to knock loose the frozen coal when a piece of metal about 1/4 x 10 x 34 inches in size hit his left hip and back area , causing a bruise/contusion .
technician tripped on a floor mat when entering the leco room and fell on her knees and left hand , injuring her left wrist .
employee states he was unloading metal shelves for an office and he cut the palm of his left hand . required sutures . not wearing gloves .
employee was on his knees beside a motor that was being installed and aligned . he was removing the motor base bolts , which were loose , with his fingers while leaning over the motor . he felt a muscle in his lower back `` pull/strain '' as he continued loosening bolts . he did not seek medical advice at the time and believed it would resolve overnight . next day he went to doctor .
employee suffered a noise induced hearing loss .
employee was changing oxygen sensor on company truck . when employee cut the clip off employee cut employee's right hand thumb with employee's knife requiring 3 stitches .
member was working to unstop a drain pipe that ran from second floor of plant to the basement . he entered a restricted area and was walking across a metal sub floor to reach the pipe . a section of floor broke and he fell 15 ' 9 '' , striking a catflock tank and sliding down it to the basement floor .
unintentional roof fall discovered during examination . fall measured approximately 50' long x 25' wide x 10'high . fall was located at number   1 section , 11 entry , 17 block , station 4931. area previously supported with 10 ' cable bolts and 6 ' full grout resin bolts . area developed on or about 8-18-06 .
employee was working as a prop setter on the longwall during his routine duties , he made a turn with his body to walk in another direction when he felt pain in lower back . records indicate that he has a prior back injury
employee was using jackhammer to clear preheat tower on line number 1 when he felt a strain in his lower back .
employee was changing a drill bit on a pneumatic drill when it `` popped '' up and hit him in the mouth .
when crimping 4/0 wire , technician felt pain in his right elbow . the next morning , his elbow was swollen so he was seen by a doctor who diagnosed him with olecranon bursitis and prescribed an anti-inflammatory   .
miner using jackleg to put roof bolts in the back , rock came out of back slid down jackleg hitting `` left '' little finger and left forearm .
employee was operating an articulating truck down the access road when employee veered off the road and came to a stop on a hillside . employee does not remember anything leading up to this event .
employee was cutting a piece of plate that was near the remaining bulk of the plate he was stepping backwards and his foot stepped into a gap on the plate , causing him to fall to his side with his foot lodged in the hole he had stepped in .
unintentional roof fall above anchorage left return number 4 belt , number 10 break inby spad # 1336. this is an extension of an old reported fall
employee was attempting to remove a keeper pin on the side of the bucket with a chipping hammer when a sliver of metal came off and lodged in the upper part of his right hand .
employee was climbing a ladder , when he claims he misstepped and lost footing and fell , injuring his left foot .
employee . slipped while walking around back of truck twisting his ankle . employee became a lost time as of 8/17/04 .
an unintentional roof fall was found at 10:23 am on the old 1st right panel at spad number 651 in the number 7 entry . the fall was approximately 35' long x 18 ' wide x 8' high .
employee was cutting belt line with a utility knife when the knife slipped and he cut his left leg above his knee . he received 7 staples . came back to work on 9/1/09 no lost time .
opened double doors to get lo-trac out . closed one door and other door closed on its own , ( while he was holding it ) , from the pressure . strained left shoulder . surgery .
employee was attempting to remove 7 roof screens from a bundle of screens that were leaning against the rib when the entire bundle tipped over striking employee in the left leg .
employee was working as a material unloader . while closing door on rail car with bar , the bar popped out jarring his shoulder . some rail cars are in very poor condition .
employee was installing roof bolts , when he caught his finger between drill steel and mine roof .
employee was pushing pipe off back of trailer when a piece hit the end of the trailer stopping the pipe and jamming it into his hand .
employee was in process of swinging boom of bolter when the foot jack slipped off of a piece of rock causing the canopy to come down hitting employee on the top of his head
employee was a passenger riding from underground to the outside when the mantrip he was riding on failed to stop in time and ran through an airlock doors causing blockage above the door to dislodge and fall and strike him on his left leg and foot . transported himself to summerville hospital where x-rays were negative , placed on restricted duty for 1 week .
employee was pulling a scaling gun off of the scaffolding which it was located. upon puling it off , it came down suddenly , he lost his grip and it struck his left earlobe . laceration to left ear by scaling   gun clip . employee instructed on proper removal of tools from scaffolds .
on 3/9/2017 , an employee was getting out of car before shift and rolled ankle . employee attended a follow-up appointment on 3/10/2017 was given medications that prevented from returning to work on 3/11/2017 .
the employee was in the process of installing utilities from a scissors deck . he picked up a 4 inch diameter pipe and slipped on the wet surface of the deck , fell down on the deck , rotating his   knee inward . he was transported to emergency room . and diagnosed as an acute ligamentous tear in the left knee .
wind blew metal gate into right leg scraping shinbone on 2-24-02. leg became infected by blue jeans rubbing on leg ( allergic to dye in jeans ) . went to hospital on 3-10-02 for treatment of infection   of right leg .
employee was changing a barrel of oil in the mill building , employee lost his grip on the barrel while trying to lift it . employee's fingers were caught between two barrels , about 1/8 '' to 1/4 '' space in between barrels . employee appears to have lost the top tips of his left index and middle fingers .
employee driving a haul wagon and saw a cow run out on the road . employee locked up the brakes and skidded off the road to avoid the cow . employee hit left ribs on seat rest .
haul truck was coming down the ramp from the dump hit a patch of ice and slid into employee's truck on the right hand side . employee's truck was stopped at the time of impact moving the truck a couple of feet . operator reports back and neck strain .
using drill press in shop to drill holes in a piece of plate . when the bit twisted the plate , injured grabbed the c-clamp causing his hand to be bound sustaining a laceration to his thumb . re portable because of sutures .
employee was on the right side front fender going to cat walk by the cab step and hit his head on the miner bracket .
employee installing air slide in place when his hand got pulled between the flanges . employee received   3 stitches on middle finger .
employee was changing rollers on slope belt . roller slipped out of his hand and pinched finger between roller and slope floor . compliance with regulations not a factor . in attention to activity a factor .
employee was cleaning rooms when he was summoned by another employee at the north face . he drove over and after arriving stopped the loader and shut off the engine and lights . he got out of the loader and walked approximately   75 ' to talk to other employee , discussion and getting paper towels out of the drill he walked back to the in the dark and when doing so he struck the loader bucket with his face .
10/27/05 at about 6:00 pm occurred near the number 12 head in entry number 4 ( track entry ) . the fall was 18' wide x 25' long . x 8' high . the entrance to the fall was breakered off , clean up and rehabilitation has begun .
he was in basement of the coloring dept . doing a system clean up . debris had built up in the basement and had become wet . he was walking through debris and got stuck . he forcefully pulled his right leg up against the suction and felt a pull sustained strain of muscles about right knee and thigh .
at 6:31 am an explosion occurred behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . mine safety and health administration , state and company have initiated investigation but results not yet available .
employee was using a sledgehammer to hit the damper to unchock material . the sledgehammer got hung up on the rails as they swung it back causing his elbow to bend backwards . employee reported accident on 01/18/12 . employee requested medical treatment on 02/16/12 and given restrictions .
employee was cleaning off top of rail car when he slipped and fell onto his right side . the car was slippery due to rainy weather conditions . on 6/3/09 employee went to company doctor for continuing knee pain . placed on restrictions and referred to orthopedic doctor .
employee was walking down steps on west side of cooler , he tripped on step and felt pain in his right knee , diagnosed with knee strain . employee was able to fully perform job functions and returned to full duty . pain continued in knee , sent for mri . employee was sent for surgery december 30 , 2010 , arthritis aggravated by trip on the step .
canopy roof collapse , employee made 15 minutes call to mine safety and health administration , an employee from the operator was checked for injury/illness . employee released with no symptom immediately . contractors had two of their employees injured .
employee was in the process of plugging the continuous miner cathead into the designated receptacle at the section power center when employee felt a strain in the lower right portion of their back . employee continued to work until 5/17/16 when employee was diagnosed with a herniated disc on 5/18/16 .
the employee claims that as he was assisting with cable handling , the suspended cable fell striking him across the neck and back . he fell to the ground and complained of pain in his back and left knee . the cause of the accident was , the employee failed to pay attention to the hung cable and should have asked for assistance prior to attempting to lower the cable .
a roof fall measuring 18 ' wide x 40 ' long x 8 ' high occurred one break inby spad number   3057 number   1 northeast mains . area was bolted with 6 ' bolts .
employee was setting old screen cloth over handrail when a corner flipped up , caught on his pants , then struck his chin .
number 3 boiler explosion altho explosion occurred 5/27/01 initial complaints and diagnosis occurred 6/5/01
employee was assisting another to open a door on a fan housing . he didn't support the weight of the door . as he released the bracket holding the door in place , the door swung downward and struck him in the chest . doctor diagnosed a bruised chest and prescribed medication . employee had not missed work nor was on light duty .
employee was helping install a 54 : return idler on a field conveyor . the employee had one end put in and was attempting to put the other end in when the chain they were using to help lift the idler in place   slipped cause the idler to fall striking the employee in the forehead . the employee received a cut on his forehead , employee was taken to the doctor employee received four stitches to close the cut . employee was released
injured was loading tool boxes in mantrip when tool box slid pinching tight index finger between tool box and man trip causing laceration .
claimant states he was hoisting electric skip loader from out of number 2 slurry tank . he pushed loader to get on hook from ladder and caught right finger between loader and wall
employee does not know how injury occurred . shoulder simply started to tighten up over the course of the shift .
a roof fall occurred 1 break inby spad number 257 in the number 2 entry adjacent to the number 2 belt approximately 20 ' wide x 40 ' long x 10 ' high
a roof fall was discovered in the number 8 entry of 3 right off number 4 north east   ( 1 break in by spad number 3578 ) the fall measured approximately   20 ' wide x 30 ' long x 8 ' high there was no eq . or injuries involved and the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee stated his 4 wheeler bounced him into top striking his head against the roof . employee refused first aid and ambulance . employee had family drive him home but then decided en-route to go to er . employee walked unassisted with no visible injuries into the er . he was assessed and received full release . employee returned to doctor on 5/22/15 and was granted time off until 5/30/15 .
operator was climbing down from caterpillar 930 end loader and slipped off the strip in the pouring rain . he landed on fender hitting his ribs . he worked the 4 days , 7-12-04 to 7-15-04 before he went to the doctor .
employee was unplugging a chute using a long post hole digging bar . while working with the bar the employee pinched his right hand between the bar and the chute wall .
an investigation revealed that the employee was leaning over a long-airdox 488 scoop getting a bag of rock dust when a piece of roof rock fell from between the roof bolts striking him on the head and back . the piece of rock took employee to the mine floor . rock was approximately , 110 inches long by 22 '' wide by 8 '' thick . the area where the employee was working was 109 inches in height . rock was slick sided for
employee was removing sheathing from a piece of 1 '' cable with a utility knife and cut the middle finger of his left hand requiring 5 sutures . he came back to work the same shift with a full doctor's   release .
employee was bolting top in number 7 entry . he had put up his outside bolt , swung head in drilled inside hole . turned to get half header . rock fell between outside bolt and rib striking left foot and ankle , breaking   ankle and 5 toes .
employee was loading the eimco dump cylinder cover into the bed of the maintenance truck when it rolled over , pinching his fingers between it and the bed of the truck .
a roof fall as occurred at spad number 350 ( 9 ) breaks outby number 3 head drive in the number 4 and number 5 entry cross-cut . the fall measured 20 feet wide , 80 feet long , and 8 feet to ( 0 ) inches thick . this area will be rehabilitated .
employee alleges he was lifting boring equipment over his head injuring his back . employee did not report to his supervisor until june 19 , 05. the insurance company denied the claim due to the length between being hurt and reporting .
employee was repairing the inside door lock latch on a dodge pickup . the 5 '' screwdriver he was using to pry the latch into place slipped and employee's hand came into contact with a sharp piece of metal on   the door .
was walking around a piece of equipment and foot slipped . he fell and hit knee and shin on edge of concrete pad . initial treatment by doctor was first aid , ace wrap and no prescription meds . accident became reportable on 9-20-07 when employee returned to doctor and he determined hematoma needed to be removed .
employee was removing engine doors from a cat 16m grader . handed door down to another employee and felt pain in back .
drive line on mantrip broke hitting the protective guard breaking the weld loose on the guarding metal . the metal guard struck employee in the left foot . injury was a deep bruise on the left foot .
employee was replacing the high pressure fitting on the ac compressor on a cat 16h grader . on his way down the ladder he misjudged his last foot placement falling backwards hitting the back of his head on the concrete floor . this resulted in a laceration on the back of his head . he was treated and released from the palmetto general hospital .
the employee was assisting with splicing a conveyor belt . he was pulling on a come-along , tightening and stretching the belt when the come-along cable broke , causing him to lose his balance and fall   off the ladder , from about 6 feet . he had some minor contusions and abrasions and strained his left wrist . returned to work on 4/10/01 with no restrict . returned to doctor on 5/10 and now has restricted
struck by loose rib , which had fallen . employee moved out of the way and fell from deck . he was then struck by a falling bar which hit his knee .
trying to line up screw that opens the door on surge tank so it could be welded . another employee energized system to extend screw so it could be welded . screw extended and bolt on coupling caught bottom of pants pulling left foot up . bolt went down into boot beside ankle and pulled foot up .
employee slipped on expanded metal walking surface because of outside weather conditions being foggy and cold , made walking surface extremely slippery . fell backwards on back and neck . lost time reportability .
employee was assigned to watch a ballantine during a cable pull to assure that the rope remained on the unit . employee stepped into the cable tray . as he did so the ballantine's chain restrained snapped causing   the rope to pin his leg to the nearby cable tray .
employee was driving a 1978 wabco water truck and was unable to stop when the engine quit . the unit traveled 300 feet and stopped on a berm . the water shifted and the truck rolled 3/4 . employee received 4 broken and 3 cracked ribs . ( employee was not thrown from vehicle . )
employee complained of a pinched muscle in his back . after going to the doctor he reported to me that a nerve was being pinched by a disk in his spine . i am nor sure if this happened at work or   not .
at 9:50 am on 10/27/10 , an unintentional roof fall was discovered during a pre-shift examination while an mine safety and health administration inspection was ongoing . the fall occurred at spad number 165 on the belt . it measured approximately 25 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high .
employee traveled to get backsight in order to advance survey station in the number 5 entry of the 2nd butt right off of south mains section . the backsight was outby a run-through check curtain . he was struck by a loaded shuttle car as it traveled from the number 6 face to the feeder through the run-through check , and incurred fatal injuries . he was found by the shuttle car operator on his return trip .
employee was loosening bolt on jumbo , sprained right shoulder .
a roof fall in old works in no 7 entry 70 ft inby spad no 1130 approximately 10 ft wide , 10 ft long , about 5 ft high . the fall will not be cleaned up .
driving haul truck . drove through a soft spot in the road , causing the seat of the haul truck to bottom out - strained employee's back . employee was examined by physician and released to full duties . reportable as of 8/5/05 when employee sought medical attention from a chiropractor . released full duty .
employee states he was standing wire against the rib . the wire fell , striking him on the left cheek ( face ) .
employee was leaving work at the end of his shift . while walking to his car he stumbled , lost his balance , and fell while crossing the parking ditch . `` employee '' fell forward on his hands and knees and landed face down in the gravel . he felt a sharp pain in his knee when it hit the ground . hours later his right knee became swollen and he was unable to walk on it .
injured worker struck uneven ground while operating loader , injured worker was bounced in his seat causing back strain ( injured worker was wearing seatbelt ) .
employee climbed up the step on the bumper of the pit truck to check the engine oil prior to starting his shift . his foot slipped , due to muddy shoes and he fell to the ground . due to the impact of the fall , he broke 2 ribs and cracked 2 others .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the longwall in the number 1 entry at spad # 66+00 on the tailgate measuring 18 feet long x 16 feet wide x 10 feet high .
employee removed a top belt roller to make a splice in the conveyor belt . when employee turned to drop the roller employee felt a pain in right upper arm . employee received medical treatment on 3/29/2018 and returned to work on next scheduled shift on 4/3/2018 and begin physical therapy on 4/5/2018 .
employee assembled scaffold ladder to lean against i beam and climbed down . the ladder started to bend - employee grabbed onto i beam just as ladder collapsed . employee hung from i beam then fell from approximately   15 feet to lower level . employee landed striking left hand against ladder resulting in dislocated joints .
while working in an area used for welding preparation employee felt an insect sting and continued to work thinking nothing more of it . employee finished his shift and the next . he reported this to his supervisor   . his supervisor immediately sent him to the doctor . the resulting sting site has gotten badly infected and now requires further medical attention .
on 9/11/11 , employee was rolling a 2 yd mucker tire in shop , when tire hit divot in ground and it made the tire spin and fall into his left knee . he went to medic for evaluation . all was ok. no days were missed . in november , employee went to doctor cause knee was still sore , surgery was set for 11/18/11 , 1st shift missed was on 11/22/11 .
employee was exiting the manbus when he twisted his right knee . note : employee stated that he had knee surgery on his right knee 4 years ago .
north mains 91 block number 11 heading 3 way intersection mobile mining unit 004 6 ft high by 10 ft long by 10 ft wide type of support 6 ft tension resin bolts , 6 '' by 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off . additional roof supports set around fall .
employee was getting in the van when he pulled his leg muscle .
employee told driver they were finished unloading but to wait before he pulled off so that he could put the load locks back on the trailer . employee walked onto trailer , put load lock on , turned to walk out   and driver pulled away causing him to fall right knee twisted with possible ligament damage .
employee was operating a mantrip , traveling to 5 headgate . motorman and a flat car were coming out of 5 headgate . neither were aware of each other on the track , resulting in a collision . employee sustained a broken ankle .
a roof fall was found in the intersection of number 3 entry , main southwest , measuring 40 ' long , 20 ' wide , and approx . 6 ' high . this area is part of the return , mined in 5/31/91 . there were no injuries   , blockage of personnel . ventilation was not affected . location - &gt; 50 + 90 , cross-cut 73 , main southwest
the employee was pulling miner cable when he felt a pinch in lower back . also was operating shuttle car and hit a big hole , this is when back started to hurt worse .
employee was getting loaded when a section of the highwall fell striking the bed and causing the cab to be lifted into the air . employee did not go to the doctor that night . the employee came to work on 10/13/04 at 6 pm . after driving the truck for awhile , employee complained of back pain and soreness .
the employee was driving a small front end loader scraping material off of the floor . the bucket of the loader caught on a piece of rebar rod sticking up from the ground which caused the loader to stop abruptly . the employee was jarred by the sudden stop .
a roof fall was found at cross-cut 62 , number 4 entry , in 4th east . this is an outby area of the mine and is not an escapeway or travelway . the roof fall is not impeding ventilation . it has been dangered off and additional support set on both sides of the fall . the fall is approximately   15 ' wide x 40 ' long and 6 ' high . the area was supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was on an atv pulling 3-inch pipe in rough terrain . employee was also pulling 3-inch pipe by hand and began to experience elbow pain .
employee was tightening tension on conveyor belt using a ratchet wrench and his back went into a spasm , employee experienced extreme pain precluding any further work . employee has been receiving treatment from a specialist for this condition for several months , original onset was not related to any specific work related incident .
the injured was working in the clean coal tunnel at the number 4 prep . plant . he bent over to pick up a4 ' piece of steel channel ( weight 45-50 lbs . ) with his coworker when he felt pain in the center of his lower back .
employee tried to lift fiberglass engine shroud to access engine air cleaner - cat . 966g loader , employee strain left side of back .
employee mentioned to his quarry supervisor that he was feeling some pain in his back and had been since the previous friday 7/31/2015 , but didn't notify anyone until 8/4/2015 . he told the supervisor the pain was getting worse so he needed to make an appointment .
employee went to see a doctor on 7-17 and was placed on restricted duty . employee back company loader into vehicle of outside party .
injured was cutting a bad section of rockdust hose out with a razor knife , the blade broke . this cause the knife to slip off the hose cutting left wrist . cause not using the right tool for the job . personal protective equipment was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations could be a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
employee was cleaning the dash of a haul truck from the driver's seat area . he reached around the computer dispatch panel and his right hand went int he far right air vent . the vent was missing the cover and as his fingers went into the vent , his right middle finger contacted the air conditioner fan motor blade and he received a laceration to the finger .
employee was riding mantrip underground . he ran over a hole/bump and felt his back pull and pop .
while attempting to lift chute into place the chute flipped over , striking him on the shoulder . employee received stitches in his upper left arm .
employee was installing nut on a bolt overhead when employee felt something in right eye . employee washed it out using eye wash. employee was sent to clinic where they did not find anything but prescribed eye drops .
the employee struck his head on the dash of the locomotive . stitches were used .
the employee was servicing a grove when she fell causing the injury .
pulling bolt over headroller and pried up on belt , block came up and struck employee in the jaw . medical treatment .
the intersection in the number 1 entry 1 block inby spad number 2259 fell . 21 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high . fall area was cribbed and dangered off . it will not be cleaned up .
employee was using a `` poker '' bar to remove frozen material from equipment lift cylinder when he slipped , striking his right hand against a section of plate steel on the equipment .
employee was carrying a crib block on her hip , the block slipped and when she grabbed at it she felt a pain in her lower back .
employee stated employee was lifting two joints of water line to clamp them together , and as employee lifted , employee felt pain in left shoulder and neck . this resulted in a strain and lost work days .
employee was pouring grease into a bucket to pour on number 2 mill gear ( due to lubricator not working ) sprain to back , went to family doctor , received a prescription for medication . no lifting 20 lbs   for 2 weeks .
employee was carrying structure and hurt his back accident report was not received until 9-18-01 .
driver felt foggy and disoriented when truck finished being loaded . as employee drove away , felt hot and uncomfortable and stopped to get out for fresh air . as employee exited the truck feeling disoriented , stumbled from the step and fell to ground . a doctor said that dehydration and drop in blood pressure caused the disorientation resulting in the fall to ground and injury .
outer door switch located at the bottom landing of the hart street elevator did not functioning properly . safety parameters operated properly resulting in a audible alarm and an associated plc alarm . mine safety and health administration notified . received call from district 8 representative . replaced switch . no injuries .
employee went to the clinic due to shoulder irritation . employee returned to work on modified duty , the doctor thinks the irritation may have been caused by an incident that occurred in 2011 .
employee felt pain in abdomen while lifting high voltage cable . injury caused by employee overexerting self and not lifting properly . no mining equipment was involved and employee has proper training and was wearing required personal protective equipment . received information on 11/13/17 that employee has been diagnosed with a hernia . employee has not missed any work due to injury at this time .
employee was inside impactor , removing rock by hand and placing back into feeder . a 5 lb rock fell from the edge of the feeder ( 6 ' ) . it slid down the impactor and struck his hand that was resting on the rotor . fractured index finger tip on his left hand .
while operating the portable power screen jaw crusher , the employee had a rock fall from above that struck the operators control panel . the control panel door stuck the employee in the back . the extent of the injury to the employee was unknown so the emergency response team called an ambulance immediately . employee was taken to the emergency room .
employee was putting cribs under continued . miner when he stood up he felt his left knee pop .
employee was on top of beam , pipe fitting , stepped off of beam onto round tube with wire mesh on tube . wire mesh caught on boot , when he tried to step off , it caused him to fall and wire mesh stuck into left leg .
employee was rolling a section of track rail over with a slate bar and little finger on his left hand got caught between slate bar and mine roof .
employee was walking at the 65 sand plant when he slipped and caught himself - he felt discomfort in his back . he went to medic . at this time it was a report only . on his days off , he still felt discomfort and employee went to doctor physician . therapy was ordered and follow up appointment in 1 week . ( 1st shift missed was 10/17/2014 )
employee was kneeling down under a cat 777 truck using a sledge hammer . as he swung the hammer , he missed his mark and lost his balance , falling backwards .
an unplanned roof fall occurred between 9/26/11 and 10/3/11 in the number 1 return entry of number 1 section approximately 5,000 ft off the section . fall was approximately 80' long x 18' wide x 6 ' to 8' high and has been breakered off and is 3 breaks outby spad number 815 .
employee was awarded 5 % for an occupational pneumoconiosis claim .
employee was mucking out with the left-hand drive when he ran over a rock and hit his head on the cab . employee pulled the muscles in his neck , he finished his shift then went to the doctor the next day and received medical treatment in as much as a prescribed pain killer . he returned to work the next shift , there was no lost time .
washing makedown mixer overflow of dry clay product off metal surface with water creating slick surface of clay and water . clay and water mixture does not properly drain at this location .
as the employee was roof bolting a rock ripped through the plastic mesh and struck him on the right forearm . sutures were required . mine safety and health administration reportable
the employee was working between the ballmills , when some dust went between the safety glasses and eye , resulting in material in the left eye .
replacing metal on chute to hammer mill , pulled muscle on right side .
he was driving a motor vehicle and has a collision . he sustained a laceration on his leg .
employee got on his knees to check the oil in the water truck . when he tried to stand up his right knee locked up . we think this is an occupational illness because he didn't do anything to cause a tear in his knee . there is nothing he or anyone could have done to prevent this . there is no accident . this shouldn't be considered a work injury but an illness .
partial tear of rotator cuff and tendon , possibly due to lifting a 25 pound , five gallon bucket of material to empty into a dumpster . employee was placed on work restrictions on 11/30/10 .
employee was laying structure out of a scoop bucket . when he turned to place the structure on the   rib , he strained his right knee .
employee was looking for a busted water line when the fall was found . the fall was located in the return travelway 40 feet inby spad no . 1938. it was reported outside and mine safety and health administration was notified . the area was dangered off until inspected . the fall was approximately   150 ' long 4-6 foot thick . 55 ton jacks and wooden timbers were installed to protect miners and the area affected .
employee was standing in front of the bucket when a rib roll occurred . a timber was knocked in the roll striking employee in the right ankle .
employee recently bid into a job involving cleanup . he was cleaning spillage off deck of cone crusher using a shovel . after the task he reported that his left elbow hurt , the same elbow injured september 2002. doctor took him off work to let drugs eliminate inflammation . no skeletal injury . employee said he could continue his job except cleanup . ( lost time until doctor visit on 3/10 )
a customer-contracted long haul driver fell while accessing his flatbed truck onto his hands and knees , suffering abrasions and contusions on his palms and knees . due to the nature of his employment , we could not collect the following data : full name , social security number , date of birth , return to work data , and extent of injuries from hospital .
employee was repairing the water spray system on the finish grinding mill . he was lifting the spray housing cover over his head to hand to another employee when he felt a burning sensation in his shoulder . employee did not start missing time until 1/17/02 .
dump truck popped out of gear . truck went over berm into filled quarry hole . driver escaped from truck . driver went to rutland hospital and was checked by physician . no injuries were found .
employee was pushing brick on conveyor . he trapped his right index finger between two bricks and sustained a crush/pinch injury to the finger tip and nail .
cleaning settled product from the top of the rotex gear box . had broken up the material with the handle of his channel locks and proceeded to wipe it of the gear box with his hand . cleared off the front and then moved to side sliding his hand under the cover where his finger was struck by the cam .
a roof fall occurred on the 001-0 section in the number 5 entry , at 5b track . ventilation equipment nor passage of persons were effected . this area will be rehabilitated .
employee climbing up step ladder ; left foot got caught up between rung and hinge on ladder - employee lost balance and fell to the floor landing on right shoulder and compressed left knee .
employee was helping get the miner unstuck when the rib rolled striking his leg . this caused severe bruising and strain . he will be off for 2 or 3 weeks or so , with physical therapy and anti-blood clotting meds .
employee was removing a rock that had become lodged in the cone of the portable crusher : equipment was shut down and locked out , at which time employee tried to remove the rock manually . at this time he complained of some pain in his lower abdominal area  
injured employee was clearing up the job site and was placing metal refuse into an open trailer when a piece of metal refuse dislodged from the refuse pile , came down and struck employee's left forearm above his glove . his left forearm was lacerated . first aid was administered at the job site and he was transported to the hospital . prognosis after surgery regaining full use of arm .
employee was loading rock-duster with dust . employee strained hemorrhoids out of rectum .
while an employee was installing a drive-line in a rubber tire dozer , employee felt a pop in employee's left bicep and experienced pain in the same arm . the diagnosis is a complete tendon tear .
employee stated that as he tried to tighten a chain boomer it slipped open and struck him in the mouth .
employee was walking on an access platform of a mill ball sorter . the employee missed a step and caught self with left arm to avoid falling . the employee felt a pain in left shoulder . employee sought medical attention the day of injury and was released to full duty . after a follow up evaluation with a orthopedic on 5/8/2017 , the employee was placed on restricted duty .
north 2 number 11 heading between 17 and 18 block mobile mining unit oo4 8 ft . high x 18 ft   wide x 40 ft   long . fall dangered off . additional roof supports set around fall . type of supports 6' resin , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats .
stone fell on leg , which knocked employee onto a pallet hitting his knee and scraping his leg on a stone .
employee was assisting other employee in offloading 50 lb sacks of anfo from a delivery truck . one employee in the line dropped a bag and this employee picked it up . he felt a pain in his lower back but finished the job . about 15 minutes later the pain increased and he was taken to town to seek medical attention . off work until recheck on 10/27
a roof fall was discovered in the 2 left panel off main east . the fall was in the number   2 return entry about 30 ' to the right of survey station number   236 and measured approximately 20 ' long by 15 ' wide by 6 ' high . the fall was approximately 1,400 ' out by the working section and will not be cleaned up . there were no injuries or equipment involved .
a roof fall occurred at the 7 north shaft c approach . the fall was approximately   10 ' high x 20 ' long. the fall did not interrupt ventilation or walkway . area dangered off . this is not an active area of the mine .
employee was working on a crew moving a shuttle car out of the mine . as employee was moving the trailing cable , the operator turned on the cable reel and the tension of the cable pulled the employee's wrist ( right   ) . after two days , the employee went to the emergency room and x-rays revealed a fracture ; a hard splint was applied .
injured stated he and coworkers were supplying the roof bolter . he said he picked up the 42 '' resin rebar and felt a pop in his back .
employee said he hurt his back lifting a cutting edge on monday , on thursday he said he hurt his back on wednesday prying on a rock from the jaw of the crusher .
employee was carrying two kennedy wall panels on his shoulders in 10 a 8 north section at approximately   # 30 cross-cut when he stepped on a piece of coal that was lying on the bottom . this caused his right   knee to twist .
employee was working on a lime/water mixing tank . he stepped into a hole that contained water and the lime mixture . his foot was completely submerged for about 5 seconds . after about 5 minutes he noticed his foot felt like it was burning . he removed his boot and found his foot and ankle had multiple burns on them . he then returned to our shop and was taken to the hospital for treatment
roof fall approximately   16'2 '' wide x 15 ' long fell about 18 '' on one side and 4 ' on the other . it appeared to be weathered slate and shell with a little water . ( in number 8 entry 2200 ' outby face 2 ' inby south pad 5373 ) . this area was heavily cribbed before fall occurred .
employee slipped and fell at top of stairs , employee fell 10 feet his hand got caught between stairs and handrail , the employee's hand was amputated in the process .
while running a production mixer which blends saline with wollastonite a rubber transition seal between a product bin and the mixer over pressurized and blew apart . the overpressure is believed to be the result of a plugged exhaust line , chemical reaction or possible flammable vapor liberation within the mixer . no injuries were sustained .
he was watering batteries for a mantrip . the battery tray lid was up , but not propped or secured . the tray lid fell , struck him on the hard hat , pushed his head down against the tray causing a cut on his lower lip .
quarry truck driver had gone to rotan gin to check loaded weight of truck and trailer . he got out of his truck went to the window of the scale house to check weight ; once checked he was going back to his truck and stepped off a raised concrete porch that was uneven lost his balance and fell to concrete hitting his knee .
employee was traveling into section on a mantrip . the trip hit a hole on the travel way and bottomed out , jarring the employee . he was transported outside .
employee was cleaning the feed chute on number 3 dust slurry , dust fell to the bottom of the tank , got hot , and exploded back up through the feed chute , and then against employee right side of face and right arm.   restricted duty from job class beginning 7-30-00
a coal seam fire started due to blasting in the area of job number 4 k cut reclaim . the fire is not close to anything that can be damaged and poses no threat to miners .
employee was working with a crew on a pin mixer and was in the process of identifying why it was hanging up . as other employee's were attempting to free the spinning shaft , it broke loose and spun towards the employee's hand , which was resting on the frame of the unit . one of the pins caught his gloved hand and crushed his right middle finger .
employee was standing on step ladder , slipped and fell fracturing 2 ribs on left side he was placed on restricted duty on 7-28-08
employee called the 402 and said that she hit a pot hole on the way to the 10 shovel . she was having pain in her neck and back .
employee was drilling roof when drill steel caught his glove on his left hand , rotating hand around steel , causing ligament damage to ring finger and a break in his small finger ( left hand ) .
removing equipment out of kiln . large piece of kiln coating weighing approximately 150 lbs fell from top of kiln and hit employee on head and right shoulder . force of blow knocked employee to floor into some hot material   .
employee depressurizing 1/2 '' steam hose . when employee opened valve hose moved causing steam to come in contact with lower left leg . resulting in 2nd degree burn .
employee's   foot got caught between ram car center section when abruptly moved .
using wrench to release `` tight dog '' on railroad car . unable to file sooner as we were unaware employee had seen doctor and received prescription drugs .
employee stated was building a concrete block stopping , picked up a concrete block , turned and twisted right knee , possible strained knee . started missing work on 04-18-05
walking out of beltline tunnel at loadout - stepped on a piece of coal - turned ankle
employee slipped off ladder and fell to ground and struck his left elbow and back of his head .
employee was assisting in moving portable compressor and strained back . began missing work 11/01/06 .
employee was riding mantrip when foreign material got into his right eye . he was given prescription medication .
employee slipped on loose material as he attempted to catch himself from falling , he strained his shoulder .
a roof fall occurred on the number 1 unit , 2nd southwest submain , spad 18+00 measuring 30' long , 20 ' , 8 ' ( in intersection ) . the fall will be loaded out .
excavator was loading a large rock into injured's truck , from the side . since excavator was loading from the side , he could not place the rock into the bed , he had to drop it . the weight of the   rock caused truck to rock . injured attempted to hold on and he felt pain in his back .
employee stated his right wrist became painful and goes to sleep after years of working on the brick crew and sandblasting . he began missing time with surgery on 09/09/2009 . this is an occupational illness .
employee was hooking up safety cable to truck frame . after he finished securing the pin into the cable and hook , he removed his gloves and noticed a cut on his left hand . laceration required one stitch   .
an equipment cleaner felt something enter his right eye while washing a production truck . later that day a physician diagnosed post traumatic conjunctivitis and prescribed medication . doctor's no tes were received on 9/17/01 . no foreign body was found .
employee had set face spads and was in the process of posting section , when a piece of draw rock measuring approximately 2 ' x 2 ' fell out between bolts , hitting him on the left hand .
occupational disease . hearing loss claim . claim received 10-5-00 .
employee was parking dozer at the end of his shift as he was stepping off the dozer , he slipped on the dozer track and fell to the ground breaking his right hip .
employee was cleaning the mine floor in preparation of setting the next timber when a coworker accidentally dislodged a previously installed timber . the timber fell and struck him in the back .
the muck car was dumped at the rotary dump . when the hoist operator started out of the rotary dump the hoist would not move . the contracted electrician came out and looked at it . he tightened up some control leads in the variable-frequency drive and the hoist operated . at this time he checked all electrical connections to insure that they were tight .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on the c-panel 1 left mains at spad station 4412. the fall measured 20' long x 20 ' wide x 8 ' high. number 4 entry ( belt )
employee was working at cement silos . while opening a valve he felt numbness in his right arm lower back . later he began to feel pain in his neck .
employee was rebuilding the tail pulley guards at plant using torches and grinder . at 1:30 pm realized his eye was very dry and irritated , continued to work and finished the day . around 5:30 pm at home his eye started to water . reported on 10/01/10 , and requested medical attention . doctor removed a rust flake from his right eye and gave prescription medication for the eye .
injured said he was helping other repairmen change a hydraulic . jack out on a ram car . they were lifting jack by hand to remove from car when one end of jack fell mashing injured's middle finger on left hand .
employee was tightening belt that holds skirting in place along feed belt that conveys product to plant rodmills . socket slipped ogg belt causing his right elbow to strike conveyor frame .
employee dropped tricon on his left foot , when it slipped out of his hands .
the maintenance truck was used to travel to a tunnel to unclog a feeder jam . the employee left the vehicle idling , and when he returned to the truck observed smoke coming from the hood . the employee notified the shift supervisor and began spraying fire extinguishers . local fire department was called as employees continued to suppress the fire .
employee caught his left small finger between the roof bolter head and the drill steel .
employee was assisting rotating a piece of machinery by using a wire rope and a snatch block . the wire choker holding the snatch block in place failed and the pulley assembly stuck the employee's upper right   thigh area . employee was examined at local emergency room   that day and diagnosed with a deep contusion and released to work . employee continued to work regular duties next few months . pain continued issued meds .
rock fall in number 2 entry of left return . fall is 6 ft to 8 ft high , 20 ft wide , 30 ft long .
employee stated that he got out of a piece of equipment and as he was walking around the equipment he stepped in a hole and twisted his knee .
injured was chipping nordbak on trunnion panel and felt something foreign in his left eye . ( employee missed the 23 , 24th of may ) .
employee removing build up from k2 stage four vessel . after several power shots a quantity of material fell into the stage four cone and became lodged in the discharge . employee was able to shift the piece of material with steel rod . as the material end of the bar employee was holding on to was forced up striking employee on the right side of the jaw . laceration , fractured jaw and chipped teeth .
with supt removing flywheel off crusher , spacer pins buckled pinching employee's hand . employee refused treatment ; had full mobility of finger and hand . 6-2-15 employee reported everything was fine just sore and bruising . 6-9-15 employee complained of lack of full extension of pinky finger went to doctor for evaluation and sent to specialist 6-10-15 specialist determined fracture and put in cast
employee was in the process of connecting a car puller cable to a rail car . the employee did not wait for the rail car to come to a stop before attempting to place the hook on the rail car . the hook on the car puller pinned the employee's hand in between the car puller cable and the rail car . this resulted in the employee breaking a bone in his left hand .
employee was attempting to rehang a section of belt drive guarding ( which was found by him to be loose at one end ) . while doing so , a rock came off the belt , struck the guard causing it to be knocked   out of his hands and strike his left forearm .
injured was holding wrench and was removing a fitting on a hose when wrench slipped striking his index finger on left hand causing cut to finger .
employees was working in mill with vac truck when he cut his right side on a sharp object
employee was driving a ram car when he hit some holes in the roadway , causing him to bounce and hit the canopy with his head and then landed on his back . his back continued to bother him and he   had an mri on 2/20/04 . the results were positive for fluid build-up between disc spaces . he is currently working but sees a surgeon on 3/17/04 .
our examiners found a roof fall during their weekly examination of the 5 west mains . the fall was located in the return of the 5 west at cross-cut 40 , entry 2 to 3. the fall was located in the examiners normal route of travel .
employee was walking down an incline on a belt line , he slipped on an area of wet floor , fell and twisted his knee .
employee's foot slipped out from under him while he was dismounting bagging platform . fell approximately 2 ft to platform and hit his leg on the way down . bruised hip , thigh , and lower leg .
employee went to a field toilet , when using the restroom he felt a bite like a fire ant in the groin area .
employee stated while changing rollers on the north beltline @ 36 block , he moved forward and struck his head on either the water line or the air line . after doing so he felt pain in his neck .
on 4/6/2010 , the employee had placed the 2 '' pump in the north bay of wheel wash reservoir and after it had drained , the pump sunk into the mud and as the employee pulled up on the hose and strap he felt a sharp pain in his right elbow . the employee went to the doctor on 4/9/10 and diagnosed with a tendon strain and given restrictions .
while walking along a wet/muddy conveyor path , employee slipped and twisted his leg/knee .
employee was handling longwall ram jacks , unloading them from a track vehicle when he felt a pulling and burning sensation in his right   groin area .
a roof fall occurred in the east mains , number 5 entry in the pillar line between cross-cut number 30 and # 31. the fall measured approximately 60' x 19' x 5'-6 ' . the area was supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts and 6 '' square timbers . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall .
employee lifted leg and crossed over other leg to remove his work boot , causing his knee to dislocate . employee was in the bathhouse when this occurred .
while drilling hole his glove stuck to pinnery steel and strained his right wrist . he did not report accident until 1/1/02 , was given bandage and medication for pain as needed .
repairman was walking over to his tool locker inside the south maintenance . shop prior to going back out into the plant . at approximately   11:10 am , he tripped over caked material , dried mud off the shop truck , and fell forward suddenly into the southwwest corner overhead door , causing a right   foot injury . initial treatment with x-ray was negative . continued working regular   duty until 12/19/03 then restricted .
injured employee was dismounting from cab of d-7 . evidence indicates he was not facing the equipment and did not maintain 3-point contact . his shoe caught on a saw toothed safety step and he fell approximately     30 inches to ground , twisting his knee . he was released for modified duty , but has not returned to work .
while working as a bolter helper on the diesel track bolter at 137 block 9 south haulage , the employee pinched his right thumb and index finger between two steels while aligning them , resulting in 8 sutures . no problems with mining machines , methods , personal protective equipment , or compliance issues .
employee was climbing off a vibratory screen . employee stepped from top of screen onto the top of the spring perch located on the side of the screen . employee lost his footing and fell approximately   two feet striking his cheek on a handrail .
employee's right ring finger was caught between the lid of an self-contained self-rescuer cache resulting in a laceration that required 11 sutures .
employee caught right knee on sharp edge of packet spout while stepping from packer chair to the floor . he cut knee . required stitches and tetanus shot , thus constituting mine safety and health administration reportability .
employee was blocking off some unneeded shower heads and cut his thumb on his right hand . three stitches were needed .
employee was fueling up a welder when gasoline splashed on the hot manifold and ignited the welder which was mounted on a truck . the welder and a 1989 ford 350 4 x 4 pickup burned to the ground .
washing and cleaning up in bird building , moved some five gallon buckets and felt pain in back . he did not go to doctor immediately hoping pain would ease . employee had back surgery in 1993. he is now taking   therapy . still performing regular work activities .
employee was climbing onto a caterpillar 980 loader . when he reached the top step , his foot slipped and he fell to the ground , landing in the 3 '' surge pile . he suffered cuts and bruises to his right knee and both hands .
a supply truck for beckley welding had an acetylene bottle catch on fire and the fire burned longer than 20 min . state and fed . were notified . beckley welding has been contacted and requested to inspect   bottles and nozzles before delivery to our sites .
employee was washing a piece of equipment with a high pressure washer and something entered his eye . he reported the incident on january 30 and was taken to emergency room for the removal of a foreign body from right eye .
employee was inspecting airline for a leak when the air line broke from fitting and he was hit with compressed air ( 90-95 psi ) and foreign material inside air line . injury to right hand and upper right arm and shoulder .
while the employee was fixing a piece of equipment he strained his left lower arm .
while removing a blow bar from a hazemag crusher employee was hitting it with a hammer to loosen it . a piece of metal went into left shin .
employee was tapping drive gear into a tram shaft with a crib tie and felt pain in his right arm and shoulder . had mri and was diagnosed with a torn rotor cuff and torn bicep muscle .
employee is a scoop operator , supplying the roof bolter . he went to get a water on the offside of the bolter . the rear rubber tire ran over the right foot - causing bruise . employee was wearing metatarsal boots .
employee was working in the north side of the feed ingredients plant . they were lowering a duct for the new scrubber . the weather was dry and windy that day . a hole was cut in the roof to lower duct through . employee was wearing safety glasses and hard hat when dust came down from the roof level . a particle of dust became entrapped in his left eye .
the driver just finished off loading his 1st load of blasting agent at the blast pattern and was getting the truck ready to travel to the batch site to re-load . he had removed the funnel from the end of the discharge auger and moved the auger into the saddle it rides in while driving and had picked up the funnel to place it in carrying mount when the auger came out and hit him .
fall was found at 1st left off 2 south mains at 1 cross-cut inby spad 1058 to 1055 number 2 intersection . roof support was 6 ' torque tension bolts. fall was 100 ' long x 20 ' wide .
employee in getting under loader for inspection and repair heard his back pop , then realized the following morning that he needed his back looked at .
number 3 production hoist drive converter   b   tripped due to a ground fault warning .
employee was making a hole in a block stopping upper right corner with a tack hammer , when attempting to strike the wall the hammer hit the metal strap and dislodged a piece of rock 12 ' diameter , employee was struck on the right shoulder . employee complained next day loss of grip and some numbness to the right side of neck .
injured was repairing a leak in a discharge pump pipe near a highwall . the pipe was chained off to keep it from going over highwall . the coupler was removed from two sections of pipe and when the injured pulled on the pipe to separate them , the pipe sprang upwards , striking the injured in the upper lip .
flipping a rock on its side . hand slipped off and he tripped over a pallet and hit his shoulder . he lost his balance .
changing a blow line from 1 pipe to another . there was no air pressure on the line when the accident occurred . the line slipped off the pipe , whipped around and hit employee in the face . employee has a deviated septum ; will have open nasal reduction surgery 08/10/04 .
employee was returning tools to his truck after repairing a light plant . when he turned to begin walking , he tripped and fell over the tongue of the light plant landing on his left elbow . the area was well lit . x-rays on 3/21/08 were negative . he had an mri on 4/21/08 . he underwent surgery to repair an avulsion of the left triceps tendon on 4/25/08 .
employee states that he pulled the ventilation curtain down to install a center line and was struck by a piece of rock that would weigh 35 lbs . the rock fell approximately 11 inches and struck employee on right shoulder . employee had an xray ct scan and an mri and all were negative . employee complains of numbness in right leg and difficulty in walking .
employee was sitting down under a belt and grabbed hold of the structure to stand up and his left knee popped and he fell to the ground . an mri revealed on 4/15/2013 that the employee had a tear of the medial cartilage or meniscus in his left knee and is off work and is now a lost time injury .
employee is stating that he felt back pain on 4-16 and 4-21 while performing duties as a deckhand on a coal barge . employee sought medical attention on 4-21. employee had degenerative spine disease .
reportable only due to sutures - employee had put e-bolt in and was under the shield on the longwall when a rock fell glancing off an employee's hard hat striking his left hand causing laceration requiring sutures .
informed on 3/9/2013 that miner did not come back to work after his days off stating he hurt his back and hips the previous work days . while driving left-hand drive miner ran over a rock and it jarred him causing pain in his back and hips .
employee was turning off the back engine of his scraper . when he was getting down , he slipped off the step and hit his elbow and twisted his arm .
employee was climbing down from 988f loader when he slipped and fell , hurting his lower back ( contusion ) .
employee was pulling miner cable out from under gob and feet slipped and he fell backward onto mine floor and his back struck a big lump of coal .
injured was handling miner cable when the cable dropped . as he caught the cable below his waist , he strained his shoulder . he worked it several shifts and then visited a physician and an orthopedic   surgeon , who placed him on restricted duty and has scheduled an mri .
employee was putting a section of a belly back on a dozer . the section was hanging from a chain . employee was lying under the dozer . the section fell and caught employee's right arm . employee jumped and hit his right cheek bone on the section of belly pan and cut his cheek .
the ali-mak elevator had been ridden to the surface by some dayshift employees and was sent back to the bottom for others . no people were on board when the elevator stopped about 75 ' short of the bottom . a `` clang '' sound was heard by a person on the surface and it was found that a cable guide had broken .
3 contractors listed in 11 were welding a eye bolt to an i beam at the collar elevation of the service shaft . they were using a p5 rod splatter rod while welding same splatter fell down the shaft   after welding , they noticed a small blue flame a couple of hundred feet down the shaft . it extinguished on its own .
employee was moving a pallet of bricks . fork slipped causing finger to get caught between forks and brick resulting in a cut to employee right middle finger .
employee was picking up a brick off of a stack of bricks while turning with brick in his right   hand he struck the forktruck lift bars causing a laceration/contusion on the tip of his thumb . he was taken to hospital and received five ( 5 ) stitches in his thumb . he did not miss work .
work crew in the pit were moving a quarry saw when the arm of the saw struck the highwall causing a piece of slate ~10 ' x 8 '' x 4 '' to dislodge . it fell and glanced of the hard hat of the injured worker , striking him in the left shoulder , breaking the scapula bone .
employee filed for occupation pneumoconiosis on 3-23-00 .
employee was getting off forklift , slipped and fell to ground ; fell back against forklift . employee continued to work until 1/10/02 .
employee was exiting r-motor , he placed his right foot on the step and when he swung his left leg around he lost his balance and fell to the floor . he felt something snap in the right knee .
employee was raking gators off the grate at the end of the kiln when he felt pain in his left arm , lower back and left leg . employee went to the doctor and was released to full duty till the root cause of the pain was determined . employee will be having arthroscopic surgery on april 26 , 2005 on his left shoulder . this will be the first time he will have missed any work due to this injury .
based on the information received from those present at appears that the ignition was caused when the continuous mining machine was cutting roof rock that had fell on footwall when a spark ignited   an unknown methane bleeder on the footwall . mine safety and health administration notified investigation conducted .
employee was jostled in an elevated man basket and struck his low back on a handrail .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in an untraveled entry of the b-11 section . the fall occurred in the intersection of the number 2 entry and number 5 cross-cut . it measured approximately 20' x 20 ' x 7' high . no injuries , mine safety and health administration was notified .
filed for hearing loss . alleged .
he was welding inside a gravel car , when exiting the car his foot slipped and he felt pain in the groin area . he continued to work at his regular duties but continued to have pain . he eventually went to a physician and was diagnosed with a hernia . he was removed from work on january 8 , 2010 for surgery to repair a right hernia .
employee slipped on ice .
employee was on the 7th ring of the tank was to move the drive out ladder , employee was not wearing proper personal protective equipment and did not follow proper procedure in moving drive out ladder . smashed right ring finger between ladder and panel .
employee was pulling up buckets of bolts to work site during his shift . employee did not have any real pain in his shoulder and did not report the pain/injury to his foremen until shift start the next day . employee had surgery ( 13 years ago ) to right shoulder . employee was placed on lifting restrictions of his right arm/shoulder by the doctor .
contractor was hauling perlite ore to the socorro plant and as employee was dumping the ore would not slide out , the truck and trailer weren't parallel causing the trailer to flip on its side . after further investigation it was found that the tailgate was never opened .
employee felt lower back pain when lifting 60 '' belt roller .
the truck shop boiler makers were assigned to clean up behind the bed repair area . employee was directing using hand signals for employee on the forklift to separate two sheets of 600 plate . employee signaled the operator to lift the plate to install a 4 x 4 x 4 piece of wood to place between the plates . while twisting and pushing employee felt a pull in the lower center of his back .
employee stepped down from steps onto approximately 3 '' x 6 '' patch of ice located on platform grating , slipped , and caught finger in floor grating as he fell .
during the plant outage , employee was attempting to scotch the raw mill with a 4 '' x 4 '' x 5 ' angle and he slipped on grinding balls , which caused him to lose his footing . when he fell , the angle struck him , pinching his finger .
employee was walking toward a truck which had been involved in an incident earlier . he stepped on a rock and twisted his ankle .
1 break outby spad number 5460 in number 2 entry , a fall 18 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' occurred . ventilation was not affected , there was a 3 '' rider seam above the coal seam
was lowering his dirty clothes basket and hooked second clothes basket , eye bolt broke on 2nd basket and fell hitting employee on top of head . 2 and 1/2 '' laceration , 9 stitches to close wound .
an unplanned roof fall was discovered by the weekly examiner 2100 ft outby the number 2 section right return number 7 return near spad 5753. fall measured 60 ' long by 19 ' wide by 12 ' high . this area will not be cleaned up .
employee was changing at tilt cylinder on number   2 left-hand drive cylinder shifted and pinched finger between frame of machine and cylinder , causing fracture .
hoist drum brake locked up while hoistman was running through his pre-shift check . hoistman tried to reset computer , would not reset . electrical relay failed to operate properly . screw on contact cross bar was loose .
employee was walking past the miner when a piece of rock fell striking employee on the hard hat , shoulder , back and landing on his lower leg causing of injury was awareness and not pulling down loose doubtful   top . compliance with rules/regulations was a factor personnel protective equip not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
two employee's were attempting to clear a plugged sample point piping , which is a routine duty . as they attempted to clear the pluggage , the sample point piping assembly sheared off from the process pipe it was attached to causing caustic solution to spray both employee's . employee's sustained 2nd and 3rd degree chemical burns .
employee was drilling into a drag conveyor box . the drill bit caught , twisting the drill and the employee's   hand , breaking a bone in the hand .
running from a flyrock , tripped on gravel , fell , hurt left leg and left arm
employee a contract employee for jp technical services , was in process of changing an idler ? on the 345 backhoe when his little finger caught a jagged piece of metal ( on the side of the idler ) resulting in a laceration which required seven ( 7 ) stitches .
employee was driving a personnel carrier down a travel road . he ran over something or hit a hole in the roadway and injured his back .
employee was cleaning a plugged chute in the k screen splitter . the employee reached inside splitter to remove ore from pipe . the splitter caught his coverall pulling his hand inside and crushing   his left hand .
was clearing out an chute with a large pry bar and struck a piece of metal in 2nd and 3rd between the two . got 3 stitches .
employee was walking around his shuttle car at the beginning of his shift , performing his pre operational exam when he slipped and fell . he caught himself with his left hand and in the process fractured   his left index finger .
employee was in number 2 entry helping tuber take down a tube when the rib rolled out from behind the tube and struck him on the left leg and ankle . the injury was diagnosed as a fracture of the left foot .
while welding and grinding on a 773 end dump truck frame , a piece of metal lodged in his eye . he was unaware until 1-20 when irritation sent him for medical help to remove a piece of metal . received   a prescription for pain pills .
this injury became reportable on 7/28/2018 when employee received a sedentary return to work release . employee was walking across backfill material on uneven ground to access the trash pump at the lower sump in the silverstar pit and twisted right knee .
employee was splitting a piece of stone with a 4 lb hammer and stone chisel when he was struck in the right eye by a stone fragment which entered over the top edge of glasses . he admitted his safety glasses had slid down his nose due to perspiration , exposing his eyes to injury . doctor diagnosis : traumatic conjunctivitis , prescription medication given
injured was bolting number 1 entry . after drilling he let boom down got one of drill steel loose from another piece that was hung up in hole . he was reaching to get steel when he had his left hand on   drill pot , the top piece of drill steel fell out of hole and hit his left hand , injuring his little finger .
employee was working on p-348 ; as he was walking around p-219 to get to p-348 , he slipped on some ice and hit his left knee on the ground . this did not become a recordable until 3/16 , when the employee went off to have surgical repairs to the knee .
employee slipped on ice that was covered with water .
employee was making fireboss run operating a small mantrip when the steering wheel of the mantrip whipped around catching two of the employees fingers causing a fracture
left shoulder still bothering employee when turning steering wheel on wa 500. therapy recommended only .
while walking from the section to mantrip at the end of the track , she slipped in approximately   2 inches of mud falling towards a coworker who caught her before she fell to the ground twisting her left   knee . the injury was diagnosed as a strain .
employee was walking to the mantrip station when employee stepped in a hole and strained lower back and right knee .
employee was loading truck , had stabbing pain in back . no one witnessed the accident .
employee was sitting in a gator and a powder truck backed into it . employee felt pain in neck and upper back , notified supervisor but did not wish to see doctor . pain didn't go away , saw doctor on 12/12/14 . diagnosed with a whiplash type injury and referred for chiropractic therapy . released to full duty .
mechanic was working on a truck tightening power take-off shaft . wrench slipped in tight spot and mechanic hit his elbow on hydraulic pump . sought medical attention as condition worsened over the next few days . he was examined and given celebrex and released to return to work .
while removing a 6 ' siding panel that had been installed with tape caulk on sides , when the panel was pulled hard enough to release the seal , it gave loose and the top of the panel fell over to the side and struck the employee on the upper wrist about 3/4 '' above his kevlar gloves .
employee was walking off a slab when employee sprained employee's ankle
number 3 hoist east brake would not release as the brake line was frozen . there were still several escapeways to surface available for personnel underground .
internal audit found need to report . employee was was bending over equipment while fixing it . while pulling out an air hose he felt a sharp pain in his back .
employee stated that he was doing a pre-shift inspection on the loader when he began to cough which caused him to slip and hurt his back . he reported this to the leadman later that morning . reported as first aid . began losing time on 5/7/07 allegedly due to the incident on 1/9/07 .
driving truck out of pit when land shifted causing front end to raise and then bounce on ground . employee hit head on steering wheel and bruised hand . employee verified that he was wearing his seat belt .
this is a re-injury of an accident that was medical only . employee has since had outpatient surgery to repair knee . employee was installing breast plate in secondary crusher , standing on v-belt guard and stepped down onto coupling guard . the guard shifted causing employee to lose balance and fall .
employee and 3 coworkers were splicing the 3a belt which had a split . while installing a 12 ft piece of belt , the wire rope used to sheave the belt slipped from the single crosby clamp , which caused the belt to lose tension . the come-alongs jerked to the side striking injured in the stomach . while checking the scissors used to hold the belt clamp came loose and struck shoulder .
while working on welding repairs of number 3 kiln unax coolers , hot metal from area being welded fell in left shirt sleeve causing 2nd degree burns on his left upper arm . cleaned , then applied silvadene cream 1 % , applied and dressed with adaptic and gauze .
while getting out of crane , employee slipped on crane decking and grabbed crane handrail to prevent falling , pulling his right shoulder . restricted duties .
employee was trouble shooting headlamp circuit on kubota tractor . employee was standing in front of right rear tire when employee rotated ignition key . the engine started , causing the tractor to move forward , allowing the rear tire to contact left lower leg and ankle . resulted in sprain/bruise of left lower leg .
employee was driving a haul truck when employee suffered a back injury .
after employee had been working on hands and knees employee was walking up the stairs and felt and heard a pop from the right knee with immediate pain and it hurt to put weight on the right leg
an unintentional roof fall was found in the north east mains , number 1 entry , 10 ' inby spad station number 3188 , between footage marks 28+75 and 26+65 . the fall measured 150' long x 18' wide x 5' high . this area was supported with 5 ' torque tension bolts , roof mat and oversized bearing plates ( 8 '' x 8 '' ) . this area was developed 7-29-04 .
employee was turning the cap that holds the oil in the trunnion bearing . the cap was stuck to the shut off valve and would not release . he continued to try and twist the cap off . when it gave way he reported feeling a strong burning pain in his groin .
employee was installing i beams across intersection of slope when he strained right shoulder after attempting to lift beam over his shoulder
employee was reaching through the drag to check the bulkhead flopgate under the clinker cooler . while prying he felt a snap inside his right elbow that caused severe pain .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at the logan's fork mine 15,000 ft from the active face outby at cross-cut 2.3 spad # 243. the fall was 19' wide and 4-5 ' high . no injuries were reported and ventilation was not affected .
employee cut the web of his left hand on a pipe . two sutures were used .
1/16/06 , an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 8 return entry at the number 6 cross-cut of the number 4 working section . the area was supported with 6 ' fully grouted roof bolts , the roof fall measured 18 ' x 18 ' x 10 ' high. this roof fall will not be cleaned up .
roof fall on belt and track in number 3 entry 2900 ' outby face located at spad number 165 , length 52 ' , width 40 ' height 6 ' .
victim is groundman/padman on highwall miner . was using a hand operated drill with an auger bit . bit got bound ; handle on drill hit the back of employee's hand when it spun around . two bones fractured by the impact ( metacarpal bones leading to the index and middle fingers ) . victim was taken to the hospital by the foreman ; hand was put in a cast .
employee was operating the roof bolter in the number 5 heading on 003-0 section when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on the right leg . employee was given 2 days off work but he did not return for his next   scheduled shift .
employee was utilizing a angle grinder to remove built up slag from the screen deck . while grinding a piece of metal ricocheted off the work area and got under the employee's safety glasses and face shield . employee went to er 3 days later and was given prescription medicine for pain .
employee was removing rust from a pump stuffing box with a chipping hammer . when he took off his hard hat and glasses a piece of rust got into his right   eye . employee was taken to company doctor on 11/01/04 where a piece of rust was removed . he was given an antibiotic to prevent infection .
employee was using a pry bar to clear a blocked hopper . pry bar rebounded and employee lost control of the hand tool . end of the pry bar employee was holding onto came back and struck employee's face . impact caused a broken tooth that will be extracted .
employee was moving the miner cable and injured his lower back .
miner loader shuttle car started to load 2nd car in number 6 heading when had ignition in face . no workers were injured . no equipment damaged was only a flash with no duration . investigated by mine safety and health administration .
employee driving a haul truck . employee fell asleep and ran into edge of pillar underground . employee taken to er that day and released with no restrictions . employee taken to doctor on monday , march 9 and placed on restrictive duty .
employee was splicing a conveyor belt when a small piece of metal chipped off knocker and struck right index finger . wound required two stitches after getting metal out of finger .
employee was pulling screens off a screen box . screen broke free and he hit his elbow on box . reported to his supervisor but refused medical treatment . requested medical evaluation on 2/6/2015 . diagnosis : lateral epicondylitis ( also known as tennis elbow ) .
employee was opening airlock door to bring scoop through . he had one door open and his shoulder against the other door and his head was down when the open door closed and struck him on the head   , left and right side of his neck .
employee smashed his left thumb with 3 pound sledge hammer while driving a bushing into scam on differential . employee did not leave work - first aid was provided . employee   called supervisor at approximately   7:30pm and stated that his thumb didn't look good and wanted to go to the doctor employee . was met at emergency room . diagnosis was small fracture . employee   was given prescription and released to full duty .
employee and partner were removing p-4 conveyor return idler . as it was being shoved into the man basket it tipped , pinching the mechanic's finger between the idler frame and the man basket handrail   . the injured went to the clinic the same day where the contusion was treated .
while employee was moving old cross ties so he could move backhoe , he pulled a muscle in left shoulder .
employee was attempting to remove wheel studs from the haul truck . as the hub rotated he lost his footing and fell to ground level .
employee was using a 16 lb . sledge hammer to slug downbase bolts on ac3 mill . next day he told his supervisor that his shoulder was still bothering him and requested to see a doctor . he was diagnosed   with a strain and placed on modified duty .
type v support 8 ft   swellex and 16 ft   super swellex . while installing the 8 ft bolts in the back at the 3600 level of the benbow decline , the bolter operator observed ground movement . the bolter was pulled back and shotcrete was applied . the operator then made ready the required 16 ft long support , before installation of the 16 ft   bolts the ground failed above the 8 ft   bolts .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered 2300 ft outby the face of 004 mobile mining unit at spad # 2091. the fall measured approximately 20 ft wide x 20 ft long x 4 1/2 - 5 ft high .
a roof fall occurred on the number 3 unit t-panel set up entries , in number 2 entry at spad 4 and 80. the fall originated in an intersection and measured approx 20 ' by 20 ' by 8 ' high . the fall was in by the section loading point .
employee was troubleshooting malfunctioning lab equipment when glassware broke and lacerated right index finger .
employee ran over a big rick while running a 631 e scraper . he was dumping on waste dump when he hit rick . it jarred his body when he hit the rock. when he woke up the next morning he was unable   to move head from side to side .
as a mechanic was lowering a d8 dozer to the floor , he caught his hand in a pinch point between the bogie roller and the track frame as he attempted to guide the load . he sustained multiple lacerations of the right hand , but no broken bones . his wounds required stitches .
while fueling up equipment , employee stepped into a hole and sprained his ankle .
the employee bent over to look under a leach vessel and pulled a muscle in his back .
injury said that he was trying to exit the scoop and his foot got stuck under the starting box . he twisted his knee trying to get out . he said if the foreman would take it easy on him , he wouldn't go outside and fill out an accident   report or go home and seek medical attention . there were two witness besides the foreman to this statement .
the injured picked up the miner cable and water line to move it out of the way when employee felt pain and tightness in the upper part of back .
employee was not wearing safety glasses or shield when using a grinder . he got metal in his eye .
climbing down off grizzly on jaw , stepped out of jaw landed in rocks , twisted ankle , ankle hit rock .
while lifting miner cables , employee felt a pain in the left testicle .
employee was pulling miner cable when a rock fell on left ankle . took to pikeville medical center for evaluation of injured ankle , x-ray showed no major injury , nothing broken . employee received 3 days off - paid by employer - saturday , monday , and tuesday .
employee was walking along belt line to change belt rollers . while walking he slipped on uneven mine floor rolling his right ankle and fell to mine floor . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
lost power to main hoist resulting in the reprogramming of computer system . power restored , computer reprogrammed hoist resumed normal operation 2:20pm
the plant lost utility power , disabling the secondary escapeway . a mine evacuation immediately commenced in the primary escapeway using the emergency generator . after partial evacuation , the generator   malfunctioned . a rental generator was immediately acquired and evacustion of the miners was completed at 5 pm .
employee was getting out of lo-trac to move a slider line curtain when employee got leg caught between bumper and frame of machine causing a contusion to lower leg .
employee was descending ladder from the crusher control tower , strained muscle in back while climbing .
tightening bolts on the cover of b bin screw . wind blew dust into left eye .
employee was jacklegging and when raising leg it stopped and suddenly raised upward striking employee in mouth and right side of face . this resulted in complex right lower lip laceration , right cheek laceration , depressed fracture anterior wall right maxillary sinus , fractured teeth
employee was checking the water level on a michigan 175c wheel loader due to the fact the radiator was overheating . when the employee loosened the radiator cap he got sprayed with steam and boiling water on his right arm and hand and right trunk body area which caused 1st and 2nd degree burns .
employee stated that he was adjusting his welding hood when something entered his eye . stated that a piece of dirt or something was on the hood and it fell off into his eye while placing hood on his head .
unintentional roof fall on spruce number 2 entry near spad # 10068. dimensions : 40 ' ( long ) x 20 ' ( wide ) x 8 ' to 9 ' ( high ) .
employee went to step onto wet steps and her foot slipped . she fell on her right knee and cut it as well as swelling that started to occur . she went to the clinic that day and was put on restricted duty .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at number 1 section number 5 entry near spad # 863. ventilation and passage of persons were not affected . no equipment was involved and no personal injuries reported . fall measured 30 ' in length , 20 ' width and 4 ' high . all approached have been breakered off and will be rehabilitated .
while loading copper cathode onto 4 stripping machine receiving conveyor , employee had one copper cathode fall from cathode strongback and hit thumb on left hand causing an avulsion to left thumb .
on 1/28/00 the employee was walking around a roof bolter and fell when he stepped on some slick bottom . the employee twisted his left knee when he fell . the employee did not miss work but had knee surgery on march   14 , 2000 .
employee stepped over a beam in the walkway ; used to slide a shaft out . he stepped off the bottom step and caught his foot on the chain , his foot rolled it to the inside , he thought he had just twisted it . sat 7:30am he called the safety director and told him about it , bruising and swelling . told him to see a doctor fracture to right fibula , doctor visit mon soft boot and limit movement .
employee was doing electrical work on an electrical box on the quarry conveyer belt , stripping a wire to make a connection , using a box cutter blade . blade slipped off wire and cut left wrist , required 8 stitches to close .
employee was lifting 30 '' conveyor head pulley from conveyor while using chain from end to end of pulley . when he broke pulley bearings loose from conveyor , the difference of weight ( because of gear reducer ) caused the load to shift on crane hook pinching his left thumb .
the injured was preparing to install the 1st bolt of the 4th row of the 9 right place . while moving the head , a rock measure 5 ft cause fell out between the canopy and t bar and rib . the rock struck   the canopy and slid into the boom area striking the injured in the legs . the impact broke the lower left leg .
our maintenance mechanic was doing pre-operational inspection and preventative maintenance on a hitachi eh 1100-5 haul truck on the morning of wednesday , april 19 , 2017. as employee was exiting the equipment employee slipped on the bottom step and fell to the ground . landing on right side causing pain to this area .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd east entry in number 10 entry spad 69+20 measuring approx . 100 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . the area had been bolted with 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts in early may of 2006. the fall was apparently caused by a hidden slip in the mine roof .
employee was showering at end of shift . he had completed shower and shut off hot water and cold water . apparently hot water valve did not shut completely and hot condensate approximately 216 degrees came out of shower head burning left shoulder , back and upper arm . water heated to 216 degrees because of faulty steam regulator to control valve .
employee was spinning the longwall shearer drum to change bits , his hand got caught between a shearer bit and the shield . this cause a laceration that took 8 stitches to close . the laceration was between the thumb and finger on right hand .
employee was positioning a ventilation tube when it came and struck him on his head , neck , and shoulder off since 4/18/2006 .
employee was servicing a drill rig when he slipped and twisted his ankle .
employee has a standard threshold shift of an average of 25 db in the frequencies of 2000 , 3000 , 4000 hz in his left ear . this was discovered from his annual audiogram results , which were received on 4/8/03 . employee was retested on 4/17/03 and the results received on 4/24/03 supported the previous test .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal in the 5 seam ( which is inactive and mined out ) at 675 west / 1425 north , number 4 entry . the fall was approximately 30 feet long , approximately 15 feet wide and approximately 6 feet thick . the fall area will be resupported according to the mine safety and health administration approved resupport plan . fall # 29a
during longwall preparation for recovery employee was helping to lift and hang a roll of screen above shields . employee complained of low back pain .
a methane ignition occurred as informed by the miner operator while cleaning up the cut at the face of number 2 entry of 3 west gate section . the left side of the machine while on the left side of the   cut is where an orange ball of flame appeared according to the miner operator . the flame was short duration and traveled only a couple feet . cause was mining through vein and methane built up
miner was feeding a pugmill with front end loader . material was wet and plugged feed bin opening . miner struck sides of bin with a sledge trying to loosen material . apparently strained back . reported it to foreman at end of shift . extent of injury not reported until 4-9-01 .
as employee removed 55 gal . grease barrel from pallet the barrel slipped , putting strain on his knee . there was no initial medical treatment . employee saw a doctor   for treatment on 11/16/01 .
employee was using a box for a stepladder . the box collapsed and she fell to the floor . pain in neck , arm , and lower back area .
employee had his right   arm resting on the canopy of a shuttle car when the car began to tram his right   elbow was wedged between the canopy and the roof . the mine was idle from 6-22-02 to 7-8-02. employee returned to work on his next regularly scheduled shift ( 7-8-02 ) on restricted duty .
i was climbing down into the possum belly of the tyrock screen . i slipped and slid down about 3 ' . when my right foot hit the conveyor belt , i dislocated my right ankle .
wireman was installing a control transformer in motor starter compartment using a hand threading tool to tap threads into two existing holes in the back wall of the compartment . the tap's pointed end penetrated the wiring which ran along the back side of the compartment metal wall thereby causing the short circuit from the energized wire to the ground via the thread tap .
employee has a history of back pain . no specific incident . received diagnosis of degenerative disc disease . l4-5 diffuse disc bulge and facet and ligamentous hypertrophy cause moderate central stenosis and mid - moderate bilateral neural foramina narrowing .
employee was attempting to remove a pin out of a snow plow assembly on a triaxle with a 5 lb hammer and punch . employee struck the punch twice and the pin did not move . on the third attempt , employee swung the hammer with more force and missed the punch and the hammer struck the top of employee's left thumb . left thumb is swollen , but fortunately no broken bones .
employee was welding a patch above the jaw crusher and he drove a piece of 4 '' channel iron into the gap between the jaw pittman and the hopper above the serve as a seat . when repositioning his body , the channel slipped out allowing him to fall into the jaw crusher , catching his fall with his left hand , wrenching his shoulder .
removing basket off clemro crusher , employee's hand got caught in a pinch point between basket and motor guard .
employee was lifting a 100,000 lb a-frame with the 100 ton link belt crane using two 7,300 lb nylon chokers . one of the chokers slipped shifting the load to one choker which broke allowing top of the a-frame to fall across the cab with the injured employee inside .
person was cleaning spillage at transfer point at breaker bldg . when chute above him plugged up with rocs . the material started to spill over and person turned to leave the area and pulled muscle left hamstring in upper part of left leg .
haul truck operator was bending over to get into the cab of employee's cat 777 haul unit and felt a sharp pain in employee's lower back . the pain persisted and employee notified employee's supervisor and was sent home . the next day employee went to the clinic and was diagnosed with sciatica . employee was placed on light duty for 1 week . employee returned to work on 8/26 .
location of fall : number 1 section ; entry : 1 ; spad no . : one break inby spad 22 ; distance from active face: 590 ft ; no personal injuries , no equip . involved ; airway : neutral ; size of fall : length - 22ft , width - 19ft , height - 4.5ft . ; 48 '' resin with roof mats ; no cribs or timbers installed prior to fall ; strata : shale , wet ; no coal rider seam present ; entrances are not breakered off ; area will be rehabilitation .
the injured was entering the mine on a 2 man diesel ride . as he traveled down the slope the engine died . as he restarted the engine the mantrip was picking up speed . he was planning to gear it down , but the engine died again . he applied the brakes , but stated they would not hold . he continued down the slope and struck a parked lo-trac at the bottom . will be off 4-6 weeks . fractutred right
while backing drill into a working face , employee tripped on a rock while walking backwards . employee fell against the face injuring his right   shoulder .
lifting a section of screen grate inside ( a ) section area to be welded on . when lifting the grate employee felt a pain in groin area .
the injured was operating a shuttle car and ran into a hole in the haulageway . when the shuttle car hit the hole , it bounced the individual causing him to strike his head against the shuttle car canopy resulting in strain to his neck .
an unintentional roof fall occurred approximately 100 ' inby ss number 3405 in the number 5 entry of the 003 mobile mining unit retreat mining section . the dimensions of the fall were approximately 7' high x 15' wide x 20 ' long .
when coal was pushed on top of feeder , the dome collapsed allowing methane to enter the engine compartment of the d-10-l dozer . the methane was ignited from the diesel engine exhaust system causing the dozer to become engulfed in flame . the dozer operator received burns to both forearms and left side of face .
employee was standing on an extension ladder about 6 ' off floor level . there was no place to tie the ladder so another person was holding the ladder . falling dust got into the eyes of the ladder holder   and he released the ladder to clean his eyes . the ladder slipped causing the worker to fall . the fall protection caught the worker but allowed his foot to strike something .
a roof fall occurred on 3a submain , number 1 entry cross-cut 34. the fall is 40 ' long , 18 ' wide , unknown hight .
contractor was removing strap from bars being hoisted up onto the cooler deck . bar slipped and cut his right hand , 2nd finger . he realized he was cut ( he had work gloves on ) he went to first aid room and applied bandages . when he changed bandage later at home it was still bleeding . he sought medical help and received a tetanus shot , was rebandaged and returned to work the next day on modified duty .
the employee was assisting in removing broken lifters and washing raw material from the dryer apron feeder when material flushed out and he was pulled onto the pile of lifters that had been removed and stacked to the side . when the employee fell over the pile it bruised and twisted his left knee .
employee was removing a brake disc from haul truck . brake disk weighs 50 lbs . and was slightly higher than waist . when employee picked disk up it shifted to right placing most of the weight on the right   arm causing the right   forearm to be injured .
strained himself while lifting rockdust .
after baling cardboard , temp employee attempted to release bale from baler . unable to release the heavy load , she got help from a forklift operator . the forklift operator had the bale half up and out   of the baler , when the temp employee moved from her spot of safety , attempted to assist the forklift operator by pulling down the baler release handle , and the handle hit the side of her head as
north 6 , 13 block 7 entry , mobile mining unit 004 , 4 way 18 ft   wide 18 ft   long x 8 ft high . support 6 ft   3/4 inch resin bolts , 12 ft   cable bolts , pans , brow straps , truss bolts , fall dangered off additional roof support installed around fall .
while walking along the operators side of the roof bolter , employee claims to have stepped on a small rock laying along the rib , as he stepped on the rock employee lost his footing and fell to the mine floor .
employee was sandblasting up underneath truck trailer boy , lost control of sandblast hose , sandblasted his right wrist .
while gathering belt tools to make a splice on the number 1 belt at the old marsh fork portal , employee was walking bent over because it is low when he caught his ear on the bottom of a cable bolt resulting in a cut to his left ear . employee was treated at med express in beckley where he received thirteen ( 13 ) sutures .
employee was running shuttle car inby panel 028-2 , ran over rock on hit hole in the tramway causing him to hit head on cab of shuttle car .
employee was leaving control room at end of shift with large bag of trash and personal items in his hands . while descending steps , his foot rolled forward losing his balance and falling to the midway landing . initial doctor visit on 1-31-07. no restrictions given . restricted duty at follow-up visit on 2-16-07. miscellaneous mail 10/9/07 # 15-9/11/07 with restrict days 87 .
employee was getting out of loader when he slipped and fell to the ground , fall around 5'8 '' .
employee was performing his duties by listening to and checking machine while in operation when he lost his balance . he attempted to catch himself with entry door of shovel . thumb was caught in   door and as a result he suffered a fracture to his right thumb .
employee was operating the miner when a rib rolled striking his left leg causing a fracture . employee also suffered a fracture to the face .
employee went to jumped off linkbelt 460 excavator and slipped on the end of the track . employee fell on the track with his lower back injuring it .
employee was drilling a hole in the mine roof to install a roof bolt when a piece of rock measuring approximately 1 ' long x 18 ' wide x 1 1/2 '' thick fell from the mine roof striking him on the left foot .
individual was placing a bag in the sewing machine when the middle finger of his left hand got caught between the intake chains , pinching his finger . the individual sustained a subungual hematoma   and blood was drained from under the finger nail .
employee states that while he was bending over to pick-up the miner cable to move it out of the roadway , the rib rolled off and struck him on the ( right ) leg and knocked him to the ground .
victim contacted raceway enclosure with wrist and received electrical burns where his wrist watch was . victim received medical treatment where 2nd and 3rd degree burns were determined . victim sent home for remainder of shift . ground continuity checks done 2 days prior . however , loose connection found in raceway .
the employee was struck on the head by a small rock which caused a laceration . his hard hat had fallen off as he looked up . the laceration was closed by derma bond .
the injured employee was dragging a 2 '' water hose used to wash down the mill yard area . as he was dragging the hose across the yard it caught underneath the wheel of a parked forklift , stopping his momentum and causing him to jerk back , resulting in a strain to his left bicep .
moving hydraulic pump into position in d9l hurt bottom right side back . it was dry and sunny .
employee stated that he slipped on mine floor . upon the mri showed degenerative nature of knee and several tears . employee had surgery on 1/10/2011 which was his first lost work day .
employee was using a 4 ' pipe wrench , in the drill doctor shop , to loosen up a part on a jack-leg drill leg . when employee put pressure to the wrench , the wrench slipped causing employee to lose his balance forward and when he took a step to catch himself , he twisted his left ankle .
employee was standing - loading a roof bolter when a scoop began to roll . it pinned his left leg against a bundle of roof bolts .
employee was working removing shell liners from raw mill ( ball mill ) . the process required striking the liner with a hammer to loosed to remove . a piece of shrapnel struck employee in the right shoulder embedding under the skin .
a fire was observed behind the cab of the bulk emulsion truck . the truck was fully involved within minutes . the blast pattern was evacuated and approximately 70 minutes after the fire started an explosion occurred . the bulk emulsion truck was a total loss .
employee was using a 10 pound hammer to unplug a chute when he felt pain in his shoulder . he saw a doctor on 2-25-03 , was examined and x-rayed and released to work . he seen another doctor on 3-3-03 which gave high cortisone injections to his shoulder thereby making this reportable .
down on knees doing clean-up , stood upright knee popped . after going home knee began to hurt . went to hospital , treated and released . went to doctor 10/31/01 who restricted from work until scheduled   mri . employee was released for work 10/15 through 10/31 . worked 10/24 through 10/26 .
employee was using wrench when he claims wrench slipped causing him to strain his shoulder . he was placed on modified duty on 7-22-04 .
while working at the face , employee told coworker that he felt `` something pull '' . he finished shift and told foreman that he had some groin pain . on way home , he stopped at hospital was examined   and informed he had a hernia . after taking with employee it was apparent that hernia resulted from prior pull at another mine . pulled area finally failed while working a spruce number   2 mine .
the employee was cutting off stainless steel bolts that hold on plates in the underside of a clinker cooler . while cutting off the bolts with a torch , clinker dust got in the employee's eyes . the employee was wearing a welding hood at the time . the employee had to have his eyes flushed to remove the clinker dust .
employee was walking down an inclined walkway . he stepped on a slippery spot , lost his balance , fell backward and landed on his right shoulder . plant physician placed employee on restricted duty and prescribed physical therapy 3 times per week .
injured picked up a 6 '' water line and raised it above his head to hang on chains . he felt pain in his stomach and back .
employee walked into path of moving forklift and was knocked down resulting in arm being injured by what x-rays showed as a crushing type injury ( severe contustions/bruising ) .
employee was putting up sails to channels during belt move , when he went to put up sails he was bent over and pulled on sails towards channels and strained his back .
employee had been experiencing pain in both wrists for 3 to 4 months . pain has been getting worse . also numbness and tingling in hands . note : employee began missing work 9/16/00 to have surgery .
employee was loading heintzman jack on the scoop and dropped the jack on his ring finger of his left hand . he was transported to boone memorial where he received stitches .
employee was using utility knife to open a box . he let knife slip , contacted his left hand , causing injury . he was taken to emergency room for treatment , stitches were used to close the wound .
employee was walking away from his work area . he walked under an inclined conveyer . he walked too close to the conveyer and as he passed under the conveyer , his hard hat struck the conveyer frame   . this caused his head and neck to be compressed . bruised neck .
employee was working on number 3 cooler ( installing chain on bedgrate doctor ) , when his left hand was caught in the sprocket , causing a compound fracture of the middle finger on his left hand .
north mains 51 block , 8 heading 4-way intersection . 7' high x 18' wide x 18' long . type of support - 6 ' resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats . area dangered off and additional roof support set around   fall .
at approximately   3:30 pm , an unplanned release of methane gas occurred in the number   6 entry of panel 2a , inby survey station number 1156 , of the northeast submains of the above reference mine . a contributing factor to the release was a drop in barometric pressure .
employee was removing a piece of decking , as he attempted to pry the decking loose from a 3 inch water pipe a piece of expanded metal fell and struck the employee on shoulders and neck .
stated : employee was walking between road grader and rib to access cab of grader . water line was hung at 5 ' off mine floor at this location . employee hit head on water line coupling , slipped and rolled her ankle . later diagnosed with fracture .
employee was removing rock from a power line while making a power move and cut his left small and ring fingers .
injured was walking back from 4e section power car after putting power back on the section auxiliary fan and attempted to step over some ventilation tubes . employee tripped and fell , landing on right elbow . employee continued to work until 7/1/17 , when employee went off work pending surgery to repair a torn tricep tendon in right elbow .
while descending a fixed ladder on the side of an open top haul trailer , the employee snagged his ring on his right hand on a molded ridge on the last ladder rung which caused the ring to cut into the   finger and tear tissue between the second and third knuckle .
employee was using portapower to move a drive plate on dryer . portapower slipped and hit his palm , straining his left shoulder
white attaching rail car to motor , employee was moving coupler with his right hand . while making this pulling motion with his right arm he felt a pain going from his hand to just below his shoulder on 8-31-01 he was examined by a physician and was diagnosed with having carpel tunnel syndrome .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred at the mouth of the first left panel off first right submains .
on 05/14/2014 the employee bumped his knee and refused medical treatment . on 05/15/2014 it was determined to have a contusion . on 05/23/2014 the employee was evaluated and instructed to have an mri . on 06/20/2014 the employee was evaluated . only 07/03/2014 the employee was evaluated . on 08/11/2014 the employee brought documentation that he was to only work in a seated position
the employee was using an air lance to dislodge material sticking to the inside of the riser duct on the preheat tower . when some hot particles of kiln feed got into his left glove he jerked his arm backwards . his elbow hit a steel i beam that he was standing next to . he reported the injury to his supervisor but did not want to see a doctor until 6/28/00 after the elbow began to swell and
using a knife to remove a board on belt roller . knife slipped and went through glove , cutting the left little finger .
the employee was lifting a glue box when he felt pain/burning and heard popping sounds in his left hand/wrist . the accident was not deemed reportable , however , until the employee began taking off work due to complications from the injury beginning on september 19,2007
coil that pulls in the safety circuit reset solenoid failed . replacement was available and required 10 minutes to correct once an electrician was called to site .
employee was dismounting from a caterpillar 990 loader . he slipped and struck his elbow on the loader's steps .
the employee was clearing out a product collector when he stood on a pipe then lost his balance . in an effort to regain his footing and catch himself on a forklift below , he aggravated his lower abdominal region . the doctor diagnosed the injury as a muscle strain in the lower abdominal area .
employee was cutting a peace of wire with a hammer to tie miner cable up when he hit his right hand between thumb and first finger causing a cut .
a roof fall above the anchorage occurred in the north6/west12 intersection . there were no injuries resulting from this fall . this area was inactive since 4/10/2015 . the fall was approximately 40 ' wide by 40 ' long and 8 feet high . the fall area has been bermed off from travel .
employee slipped on ice and fell on his knee . he was taken to the emergency room and released to work . on 12/21/15 , employee notified supervisor his knee continued to hurt . he was taken to an orthopedic specialist and taken off work pending the results of an mri . currently ongoing .
1st break outby face number 4 number 2 section he was waiting for scoop to clean up rock . employee was standing beside of roof bolting machine when the rib rolled off . hurting lower right leg .
employee was helping explosive truck driver transfer the anfo from truck to the explosives cars for shipping underground . after lifting a bag of anfo employee felt `` tug '' in his back . employee . is scheduled for four day week , was seen on october 28th and told to rest during 3 days off . came back and saw doctor on november 1st , was put on restricted duty .
operating headgate drum on shearer going towards tailgate as shield 50 hit rock spar in floor a piece of rock 1 foot square bounced off shearer and landed on his right foot while he was standing between shields operating the shearer by remote control .
the employee was driving a spade into the rib to hang a cable , when he struck his thumb with a hammer . the employee suffered a broken thumb .
employee was reaching for an impact gun when a rock fell from an unknown location and struck a pry bar that was thrown into employee's left bicep .
employee was helping to install guards on lower feeder number 520008 , when metal shavings came down and went into his right eye . employee was wearing safety glasses at the time of accident .
employee was using a piece of wire to unplug anfo from auger . the wire apparently caught in the moving auger and pulled the end of his finger off .
on the afternoon shift the shearer was cutting into the tailgate when an outburst occurred filling the panline full of coal and rock from shield 103 to 116 causing the panline to stall . the outburst   did not cause any damage .
throwing bundle of bags down chute . bundle caught on his left sleeve , jerking employee to the left .
employee was placing a crossmember into pit feeder . crossmember fell and injured left index finger , requiring 3 stitches .
employee was sitting in a safety meeting and turned to his right to pass a paper to the person beside him and felt a pain in his lower back . when he went to stand up after the meeting was over the pain increased . went to company doctor . received restrictions , part-time , and prescription .
he was tightening up bolts on front of ride , when he hurt his shoulder and pulled muscles in back . started missing 03/29/06*
employee was chipping slag from a hot weld when a piece of slag caused a corneal abrasion . he was examined at an urgent care facility immediately following the injury . no foreign body was embedded . antibacterial eye drops are prescribed and administered . he was examined by the co doctor the following morning . no additional treatment was performed and he was released from care of medical ministry international . he was
the employee was climbing down off a blade , when he slipped on mud on the step . he tried to catch himself on a handrail and stretched and strained his left shoulder . the pain persisted and on 10/20/08 he went for surgery on his shoulder and missed his first shift on that day .
mechanic went home after shift and woke up with a sore right shoulder . employee came to work the next day and reported injury . the day before the mechanic was using a 3 pound hammer to pound a wedge in macawber dome valve to loosen seal . supervisor called plant nurse to talk to mechanic employee is following up with doctor today
while being loaded by the 992g loader the bucket came down on the box of the cat 773b haul truck. this jarred the driver causing him to hit his head on the air conditioner unit . he received a laceration   that needed 10 staples to close . he was wearing a seat belt .
during an mine safety and health administration site inspection , mine safety and health administration inspector climbed up onto mobile equipment hauler to talk to operator . operator opened his driver's side door to talk to the inspector . after the conversation was complete , the inspector inadvertently shut the door on the operator's left hand , injuring his left index and middle fingers .
using cutting torch to wreck out old hopper ; included use of face shield and safety glasses ; employee lifted face shield when not using cutting torch , pieces of cement/metal particles sitting on head suspension of face shield fell off of small groove on top of head suspension and down through and behind safety glasses . eye irritation from particles falling into eye area .
employee was operating a valve that had a defective handle with jagged edges . the jagged edges cause a laceration on employee's hand which required sutures to repair . no lost work days or restricted duty .
55 gal . drums of lube to proper staging location and using a barrel dolley , the barrel dolley clip that holds the barrel lip slipped off causing the barrel to fall back to the upright position . the employee's hand was around another barrel and was pinned between the two barrels . resulted in a laceration and broken bone to the tip of the middle finger on the hand .
an unplanned roof fall had occurred from spad number 47168 for two cross cuts in the northern direction . this area is in the return aircourse and does not affect the ventilation to the working section . it also does not impede the weekly exam . this location is in an area in which no employees are currently working .
employee observed a coworker having trouble . he quickly exited the dozer and slipped on the track and struck his right knee .
employee was unlatching the block , operator from fmi lifted the boom and the chock block that was being used as a buffer between the boon and the cradle fell approximately   6 ft . hitting employee on top of his hard hat . employee was dazed at first and then upper extremities became sore .
employee was cutting conveyer belt , knife slipped lacerating his right thigh .
employee stated he felt strain in right shoulder while performing mechanic work on d-6 dozer . he did not miss any time until 1/22/01 . this report has been delayed waiting on diagnosis from doctor see attachment
employee had just finished repairing a loading machine . cable when a shuttle going outby caught the loading machine cable that was hung along the roadway causing the cable to tighten up , catching the   employee between the cable and the loading machine .
while slag dropped and lodged on the outer tongue of boot which burnt a hole causing penetration of the slag inside . this caused a combustion reaction inside the boots which charred sock and boot   then caused skin damage .
employee didn't start missing time until 9-6-2011 and is scheduled for pre-operation appointment on 9-12-2011 for surgery
employee was helping put a flat car back on the track. he was pushing down on a jack bar when the jack slipped . he fell forward and stepped on a crib block causing the injury .
employee was laying track using a bar to flip track over . his foot slipped and bar struck his nose near the left eye , requiring three stitches .
the employee was using a two-handed sledgehammer to move material in a feeder by striking the sides of the feeder . as the employee swung the sledgehammer over his head , he felt a `` pop '' in his left shoulder and released the sledgehammer , which then struck the same shoulder ( left ) . the employee has scheduled an mri to determine the extent of the damage ( an x-ray revealed no damage ) .
miner stepped over pipeline and twisted/turned ankle ( right ) . pipeline rests on ground which waswet , sandy and somewhat unlevel .
employee was using his pocket knife to loosen a screw when the blade broke and but his finger . the blade was closed at the time it brake .
employee was hammering concrete off steel beam with small welding hammer . employee was standing , straddling metal piece , and swinging hammer with right   hand . hammer struck employee's lower inner left ankle . taken to doctor who found no broken bones . impacted nerve with swelling and bruising . no lost time but on restricted   duty until 3/7/05 re-evaluation . 10/11/05 : no restricted   duties and prescription - pain medication   only .
employee observed a metal roof strap wedged in coal at the section feeder and he attempted to remove metal strap by hand . employee sustained a laceration and received 6 sutures in his middle finger on right hand . employee was not wearing gloves . employee returned to work on 7/9/2014 .
a roof fall was discovered in return entry of number 7 on 10-27-05 at 11:00 am the fall measured app 30 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' high . no personal injuries or machinery was involved . preliminary investigation revealed that the fall was above the anchorage point .
on 1/24/08 at approximately 4:08am , hoist at dotiki iv experienced a malfunction with a field current regulator . mine safety and health administration was notified at approximately   4:19am
employee was cleaning out around a slusher when a rock came down from high on the rib wall and struck him on the left shoulder . the rock caused a slight fracture of his shoulder blade .
employee diagnosed with carpal tunnel - 5-7-02 .
was removing a nitrogen cylinder for the eljay crusher . oil under pressure burst from the cylinder into his eye . eye protection was being worn at the time .
he was performing his regular duties as a mechanic using a chain fall when he felt pain in his right shoulder . he continued to work at his regular duties until april 11 , 2011 when he was removed from work for shoulder surgery . his mri indicates tendinopathy and degenerative changes . this and his 35 years of mining experience support occupational illness . mri report included .
latches on breaker door were not turned all the way . when breaker was reset the breaker blew up . door blew open burning his face , neck hands and 6-8 inches on arms . 480 v breaker .
employee was splitting stone with a chisel and 6 lbs hammer . as he swung his hammer toward his chisel , the stone unexpectedly separated causing him to pinch his right index finger between the stone and his hammer handle .
employee was stepping down out of euclid haul truck and fell to ground . does not know if he slipped or missed step - not sure what happened . employee dislocated right shoulder and cracked pelvic   bone .
employee was operating the loader and hit a pothole causing back to hurt . employee declined medical attention at first but asked to go to the doctor on 9/19/17 .
employee was pulling himself up onto trackhoe to operate .
an engine compartment fire resulted from a mechanical failure on 526-518 kress coal hauler driveline .
the longwall face was mining through number 15 cross-cut . between night shift and day shift the cross-cut fell in .
unplanned roof fall on the oo2 unit number 24 belt outby spad number 13145 and inby spad number 13400 fall is approximately 46 ' long and 19'5 '' wide and 6 ' to 8 ' high
while descending the moving stairs of the stacker reclaimer , a hidden rock moved forward , employee stepped on it , twisted his ankle and fell .
employee was dismounting a rail car and when his left foot touched the ground he felt a `` pop '' in his left knee resulting in pain .
employee was loosening the bolt and while trying to break it loose the wrench gave when the bolt loosened abruptly . his hand slipped and struck the nearby hand rail and smashed his right thumb a little but put a cut on it as well
employees had removed the wash screw at the siding and had completed the reinstallation of the conveyor . a coworker was moving the backhoe out of the way , while employee was standing under the wash screen   , when a rock that was wedged in the tracks of the backhoe popped loose and struck employee under his left eye beneath his safety glasses .
received a hearing loss diagnosis for employee . employee was termed on 9/25/15 .
the employee was hanging miner cable on the high voltage hanger . the miner cable swung back and one of the smaller hooks , on the hanger , hooked him in the nose and it ripped out when the hanger swung back . mine safety and health administration reportable
roof fall occurred in the east sub panel at spad number 8 and 50 in the number 6 room ... .40 ' long and 19 ' wide x 5 ft high ... no equipment or ventilation affected .
employee was flipping over a rock int he walkway of the track on number 2 section , he slipped on a small loose rock and fell across the track , landing on his right shoulder and lower back .
employee was installing a return roller on a conveyor belt and pinched his thumb between the roller and belt .
a roof fall in the main east entries number 13 cross-cut number 3 entry measuring 60 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . the area was mined in may 2000 and supported with 6 ' rebar bolts .
employee did not report his accident until 2/12/01 . he informed site supervisor that he hurt his back . no further information available at this time .
part-time was working a hard to turn valve and pulled herself into a pipe railing , striking it with her left lower chest . she felt a pop and complained of pain left lower chest radiating to the left posterior chest .
while changing a shuttle car tire , the tire fell on employee left foot .
located at 104 block , main north : 2 employees were taking an air reading with a smoke tube ( @ main east seals ) . the smoke tube shattered while inserting it into an aspirator bulb , causing a puncture/laceration to his left 5th finger , that required surgery to repair the flexor tendon . began missing 8/28/06 . surgery on 8/29 .
replacing thermocouple on the thermal dryer , but the hole was too small . he used a 1 '' pipe and 3 lb . hammer to widen opening . he missed the pipe and struck his gloved left hand with the hammer , opening a wound in the soft tissue between the thumb and index finger . required 7 sutures . no problems with training , personal protective equipment , mining methods or compliance issues .
mechanic cut fingertip using razor blade . while first aid was being given he passed out due to the sight of his own blood and struck his head as he collapsed . was revived and transported to local clinic . they couldn't treat him and he was flown to umc trauma in las vegas . cat scan was performed and read in las vegas . he was then released to return to work at 2:15 pm that day .
employee was grinding on steel beams with safety glass on , when a chip of steel came from behind . note - employee was wearing safety glasses .
employee said the seat bruised his back . i was not informed of this when the situation occurred .
employee was putting on boots in the parking lot at job site when he felt pain in his back .
the operator missed bottom step on 2012 kawasaki loader . employee fell and hit elbow on step and needed 2 stitches .
employee was operating a shuttle car when he attempted to avoid the line curtain on the off side . he got too close to the rib/brow on his side and came in contact with the rib .
a roof fall measuring 50 ' x 18 ' x 8 ' to 10 ' thick occurred in the last open cross-cut of number 5 entry . the area was roof bolted with 3/4 '' diameter   x 6 ' and 8 ' long tensioned rebar bolts . a roof bolter cable and continuous miner cable were under the roof fall .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee on 3/5/2014 .
employee was diagnosed with coal workers' pneumoconiosis .
a roof fall occurred in the main east main at cross-cut number 150 at spad station number 106 + 13 in the number 1 entry . 35 ft long x 18 ft wide x 6 ft high . no equipment involved or ventilation affected .
while walking behind a belt take up the miner stepped in a hole and strained or jammed his back .
the employee was replacing poly screens . he was attempting to remove some of the pins . he swung the hammer , hit a piece of angle iron , the hammer bounced over and hit his left index finger causing a fracture . the employee's finger was bandaged with a splint , but is still able to perform his normal job ( control room operator ) with no restrictions .
employee was attempting to tram the number 753 tub out of the track spur when the tub derailed . employee jacked the tub up until it was above the ball of the track rail . when employee got it high enough employee was going to attempt to shove it off of the jack to make it land back on the rail . in the process of shoving the tub over it landed the wrong way and landed on the employee's foot .
employee was helping remove leg jack from headgate area and was struck on top of left foot by a piece of coal from the rib .
employee was operating a front-end loader in the pit area , when he drove over a wind row made by the dozer , which jarred his back and strained it . injury was not reported to supervisor until 10/14/ 02. employee went to the occupational   health center and they put him on restricted duty as of 10/14 .
employee alleges after grinding operation , he took his sleeve on his jacket and wiped his eyebrow and he felt something in his eye .
stacker conveyor stalled and employee exited loader to shut off power . in doing so he twisted and felt lower back pop .
a failure in the hanging wall at 32w 3700 occurred between 6/21/04 dayshift and 6/22/04 dayshift that appears to meet mine safety and health's reporting criteria . no one working in the area on night shift . the heading has been open for approximately   10 months and was cable bolted about 2 months after initial excavation . the failed section measured approximately 10 ' high x 6 ' deep x 20 ' long .
6 north - 3a - longwall face , shear intersected uncharted skid hole near cutoff charted plugged gas well . skid hole located at number 105 shield .
employee was operating a continuous miner and while standing stationary he had to turn and twist his body to see the approaching ram cars . he felt pain in his right knee . he had right knee arthroscopy and partial medial meniscectomy on may 13 , 2014 .
employee got off the mantrip in the outby travel way at number 2 belt drive , took a step and felt right knee give out followed by pain and tightness .
employee placed left hand between bottom and mid shell of crusher to adjust gasket while mid shell was being lowered by crane onto bottom shell . employee's left hand was crushed . ( post-surgical evaluation   : probably will require amputation of middle , ring and little fingers , each at proximal phalange . )
employee was diagnosed with anterolateral spondylosis . documentation is attached .
employee states that as he was tramming a rail ride through the air lock doors , one of them started closing on him . the rail ride caught one of the doors causing a cinder block to be displaced and fall . the block struck his hand causing an laceration .
employee was lowering a pump cable and his finger got caught on the hanger and it cut his finger .
employee was using a splitting mallet to break wood apart to fit into wood heating stove . he pulled a muscle while swinging the mallet .
a fall of supported roof occurred in number   4 entry between cross-cut number 7 and 8 on south mains , parallel entries on 001 section . the fall measured 18 ' wide by 70 ' long by app 6 ' high . no injuries resulted from the fall .
employee was walking off the face when employee stepped in a hole between shield number 2 and number 3 causing employee to fall spraining employee's ankle .
roof fall in the south mains number 6 entry . at 47 cross-cut   intersection and in by . fall is 40 ft long , 17 ft wide and 12 ft high . roof material consisted of layered shale with a longitudinal slip . are a was mined 11-99 with a continuous miner and supported with 7 ft point anchor roof bolts .
employee was handling metal and hand came into contact with raw edge that punctured his hand .
employee was assisting two other employees in removing a pump from the spanish needle creek . the pump sits in a concrete enclosure and required the use of a crane to remove the pump. the employee   put his hand on the hoist rope as the pump was lifted , causing his fingers to be pinched between the sheave wheel and the rope .
while b-bonding a stopping in the bleeder entry of 24w sweat ran down into his eye , possibly bringing b bond powder with it . received a scratch to his cornea that was treated with prescription eye drops . missed no work . no problems with training , personal protective equipment , mining methods or compliance issues .
2 employees were using a sander-grinder on metal strip down side of trailer truck bed preparing to repaint it . some time during the afternoon of the 12th injured got a piece of metal on his eye ball . he has had pink eye and his eyes were still sore and he didn't realize he had anything in his eye until around noon on 4/13 . he had on his safety glasses and a face shield .
working on hammer mill , hammer started to spin , holding on to it to prevent coworker from getting injured , pinched left thumb . cut left thumb in 2 places
employee was using a sledge hammer to break up a piece of kiln ash . when the hammer face contacted with the piece of ash , the employee felt something pop in his left wrist and felt pain .
employee was pulling up a 2 '' wash out hose to the elevated decking in order to wash down material .
employee was driving a lowboy down the haul road and experienced pain in his lower back and upper buttock . he was taken to the center for occupational health on 6-5-01 and diagnosed with a strain   to the lower back . he is to have physical therapy 2-3 times a week . he was released to come back to work with restricted duty and is scheduled for follow up on 6-20-01 .
employee was walking in the belt entry when he raised up striking his left ear against a belt hanger , causing a laceration .
employee was working in number 5 finish mill removing head liners . four ( 4 ) liners are removed at a time . employee had placed a liner at an angle to the side of the mill . while moving another liner , the one he previously positioned slid down striking him in the right ankle .
he stepped on snow covered steel , slipped and fell , twisting his left knee . he continued to work performing his normal work until he had arthroscopic surgery on 2-22-01 .
employee , an sos contract employee working at simplot phosphates , was raising the feed pipe . she put her left hand on the block of the crane to steady it . as the crane block was coming up through the chute it pinched employee's left ring finger between the feed chute and the crane block .
the employee was walking to his work area when he stepped in a hole , when he slipped he twisted his back .
climbing down ladder of haul truck , very icy , lost grip and fell 5 ft to platform , struck his chest against railing
employee lifting 94 lb . bags of cement onto pallet ; he incurred a strain in back area , causing pain when standing or sitting for long periods of time .
while tramming a scoop , the scoop hit a hole in the roadway and threw the scoop operator into the canopy of the scoop .
employee was moving bolts to the side to gain access to the oil fill lid . the bolter operator was tramming the bolter machine and did not see employee . the machine ran over his foot ( left ) .
roof fall : length 60 ' x width 20 ' x height 6 ' .
employee was cleaning under a dryer with an air chisel . the hose on another employee air chisel came off and blew some material under his coworkers safety glasses and into his right eye . the ophthalmologist has to remove a particle from employee's eye and he was given a prescription medication .
employee advised supervisor on 4/24/00 that as a result of tripping on a rock 3 weeks ago he sustained a tear type injury to right knee
employee was plastering brattice when he went to stand up he felt pain in his leg .
while mining a current hole , the coal quality turned bad and auger engine sped up . to determine if they had possibly intersected the previous hole or gotten into the roof or floor , they had to open the previous hole to see and listen . this hole had been corked by a bulldozer while cleaning up . when opened , accumulated gas ignited on the auger's inert gas burner and burned &lt; 60 sec .
making splice on 3 east belt , miner was just inby drive trying to remove a stuck splice pin . employee put the claw of a hammer against the head of the pin and struck it with another hammer . sliver of metal came off one hammer and punctured left forearm . no problems with training , personal protective equipment , mining methods or compliance issues .
injured was assisting miner operator , when a piece of draw rock fell from the   roof striking him on his right leg . this resulted in a fracture to his right ankle .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on 6 right section , one break inby spad number 22344 in the number 2 entry . the approximate dimensions of the rock fall area are 10+ ft x 30 ft x 50 ft .
at approximately   12:20 pm the camp run elevator was reported to be out of service . maintenance employees were notified and began troubleshooting the problem with the assistance of schindler elevator service via telephone . the elevator was experiencing a switch fault . the fault was cleared and elevator examined and tested and put back in service at approximately   1:20 pm .
on february 23,2006 general inside laborer injured his left ankle while working as a section utility person on the mobile mining unit 002 working section . he was walking through the last open cross-cut when a shuttle car cable drug across the entry striking him on the left foot causing a sprain to his ankle .
started on the dozer but moved to the blade for a specific project . when done , as employee was getting off right knee buckled . shortly after it started swelling , so employee sought medical attention from safety .
on november 1 , 2001 , employee reported he had a sore left shoulder and may have torn muscles . his injury occurred on october 17 , 2001 , but was not reported   at that time . he saw a specialist on 11/7 2001 and was diagnosed with left shoulder pain/ rotator cuff tear . he was placed on light work .
employee was attempting to push in a skirt rubber that had popped out . employee used a pry bar to push the rubber back in place and inadvertently made contact with the moving conveyor belt causing the bar to spin and pinch their finger between the bar and the chute . a few stitches received to tip of right middle finger .
employee pinched right hand fingers in bag loader saddle while inspecting roller bearings on bag loading conveyor .
employee bent over to pick up a 50 lb bag of siderite and hurt his lower back .
we experienced a rock burst in the 168 stope on 4600 level which shattered rock on the footwall rib approximately 2 ' to 4 ' deep for a distance of about 16 ' in length . rock also appeared to have been pushed up from the sill creating a muck pile approximately 3 ' to 4' high . there was no apparent damage to the back except some surface cracking of the cemented backfill . no crew present .
fall app . 0 '' to 12 ' high - 18 ' wide - 18 ' long - no injuries , no equipment involved - no blockage of air or escapeway - will not be cleaned up - breakered off and dangered .
employee was standing on a flat bed truck loading 50 lb bags of lime into a hopper and strained right groin .
employee was cleaning loader wheel when his finger hit a sharp piece of metal . he cut his right middle finger requiring sutures
stairs , employee was coming down stairs , right ankle twisted and caused a sprain
contract employee ( contractor id # 5uf ) was riding the mantrip when it hit hole , jarring his lower back .
a roof fall measuring 70 ' ( long ) x 18 ' ( wide ) x 6 ' ( thick ) was discovered 80 ' inby spad # 1293. this fall was discovered @ 10:20am .
employee was cleaning rock from the deck on the shuttle car level at the secondary crusher when another employee working on the deck above him kicked a buildup of ice/mud from the conveyor . the ice chunk fell to the shuttle car level and struck employee working there . the employee was examined by authorized provider and released to full duty . he was seen on 11/25/02 and massage therapy was administered .
employee was lifting blocks , turned end threw block onto conveyor belt . employee started missing work 4/11/05 due to surgery
employee was loading full oil cans in the scoop bucket when employee felt a pop in left hand/elbow/forearm . employee finished shift and then went to the hospital where they reported employee may have some ligament damage so they suggested employee wore support . employee received a full release and returned back to work the next day .
employee was securing an oxygen bottle back up that had fallen over . as he turned to get a chain to secure it , the bottle fell over hitting his leg against the edge of a scoop bucket .
employee was walking up number 6 entry and slipped in a hole and felt pain in right knee .
while holding plate with air bellows on it as another employee was center punching holes , the plate bounced and the bellows pinched the employee's finger .
employee was a passenger in a brookville mantrip . when the operator attempted to stop he suddenly realized he had no brakes causing the mantrip to roll backwards 1350 ' striking another mantrip at the end of the track .
employee was in number 1 magaldi working when a mixture of water and hot clinker got in his boot which caused a chemical burn to the right foot .
while swinging a sledge hammer , the employee missed the flange on a beam . the momentum carried his hand into a handrailing .
carpal tunnel syndrome diagnosed on 2/4/03 . no work missed till 4/30/03 for surgery .
1 block in by spad 121 on intake number   6 entry 3 way intersection . 10 ft wide 25 ft long , 7 ft high .
employee felt pain in right shoulder while traveling mortar product overhead in a newly constructed cyclone plenum . employee didn't seek medical treatment believing it was just a sore shoulder . employee returned to wear con facility on 5/8/17 where employee sought medical attention and was diagnosed with a right shoulder muscle and tendon strain of the rotator cuff and place on restrictive duty .
we had a roof fall in an area of the mine that had been cribbed and dangered off for about 3 weeks , 20 ft in by spad number 5125 or 7 break out by face in the number 3 neutral entry . the fall was approximately 18 ' wide by 70 ' long and 10-14 ' high . the fall did not block intake or return airways , belt entry or neutral travelway . fall will not be cleaned up .
a non-injury roof fall occurred in the number 2 entry of 12 west at cross-cut 25. the fall measured 8 ' to 9 ' high , 35 feet long and 18 to 20 feet wide .
injured employee and two coworkers were removing old cartridges after rebagging a bag house . injured employee was struck in the mouth with a cartridge and the impact knocked 4 teeth loose . note : it was not determined that the incident was a recordable injury until july 14 , 2004 .
cut on hand from number 007 hitachi shovel hand rail . no impairment at the time of incident . infection occurred later .
employee slipped and fell while getting out of his pick-up to re-fuel . he landed on his left hand and sprained his wrist .
employee was attempting to lift a belt guard and felt pain in his left shoulder .
while employee was in his shuttle car , a rock came off rig and hit his leg . the cut required stitches . he returned to work later the same day .
employee was leaning over the undercarriage attempting to grab his lifting chain while installing the belly pans . employee was leaning directly over the lifting eye . he grabbed the his chain and was backing out away from the undercarriage when the lifting eye caused a contusion to his left chest area .
a fall occurred in the old works 35 ' in by spad number 2429 to 50 ' out by spad # 2467. fall was approximately 4-6 ' high and approximately 16 ' wide , for the distance listed above . cover approximately 300-350 ' . fall will not be cleaned up , it will be posted and dangered off .
audiometric records indicate an industrial hearing loss .
injured was interrupted by another person , he stepped forward to ask what did he say when the tail jack was coming down he had put his right foot under the jack at that point , the steel toed sh oes saved his toes from being crushed , injured had small fracture tip of big toe and stitches .
after he finished spraying the stopping , employee laid the spray gun on ground . the pump picked up what sealant was left in hopper and started spraying . the hose started fishtailing , spraying sealant into both eyes .
while lifting a section of ultra track bar , when disassembly b-7 pan line , coworker dropped his end , catching injure left middle finger .
during an mine safety and health administration inspection of our emergency hoist , it was found that the hoist was not functioning properly . the hoist would not release the brake to lower the hoist into the intake shaft . the investigation revealed that the 90 vdc power supply had failed which powered the drum brake release circuit . the power supply was replaced and the hoist was returned to service .
employee was loading supplies on bolter . bolter operator backed over his foot . ( employee stated operator asked if he was clear and he thought he was . )
piece of rock projected from miner tail , striking employee on right side of head . required four sutures .
the injured was helping change out a 2 '' water line on 1 east mains belt at break number 32 , when he squatted down to take the bolts out of the victaulic coupling he struck his left knee against a bottom belt drop down hanger , resulting in a laceration requiring 5 sutures .
employee was going into the parts trailer , slipped and fell off the steps to the ground . initial medical result was broken upper fibula and strained ankle . he went to his family doctor on 11/1 and further exams showed a broken right ankle with some misalignment of the pieces of bone . surgery to put screws in these pieces was done on 11/3 . first lost work day was on 11/1 .
employee was loading straps , plates and bolts on the bolting machine he operates when he started having back pain .
employee was pulling on a wrench to loosen a cartridge when the cartridge broke loose causing employee to hit elbow on the fender . employee was placed on restricted duty on 6/14/2017 .
employee was using a punch bar to clear a blockage at the discharge chute at our rms reversible belt . he was standing on a platform . when the material broke loose , his momentum caused him to lose his balance and fall from platform .
employee was removing anvils from crusher anvil ring with sledge hammer causing a piece of anvil to break off and hit victim in left knee giving him a laceration that took 3 stitches on inside and 3 stitches on outside .
employee stated that employee was stepping out of a shuttle car when employee slipped on the ground hyperextending right leg resulting in a sprain/strain and lost work days .
employee states he was unloading timbers from scoop and pulled muscle in his back .
employee was assigned to number 2 clinker tunnel to assist with number 1818 drag clean out . he arrived at the head pulley area and took the fastvac hose . the hose then surged causing him to fall against the drag with the hose between his leg .
employee was on site to clean underground piping with a water jet via an open manhole . a hose reel guide was installed overtop of the open manhole to allow the hose to move freely . employee was standing on top of the hose reel guide when it moved him and the guide fell into the open manhole . employee caught himself on the sides of the manhole , causing contusions to both arms and left shoulder .
while operating loader , employee apparently jarred himself , causing pain to his lower back . he worked 6.5 hours the next day and went to williamson arh   to have check-up .
employee was setting miner up to turn cross-cut , started cutter head , when the cutter head started to cut a piece of rock and coal struck employee's left foot .
6 people were entrapped on sugar run elevator from 12:58 to 3:10 am due to an electrical fault ( governor switch tripped ) . switch was reset , men were removed and fault was unable to be reproduced that day . later had to clean contacts on starting panel relay for motor fields . no issues with company rules , regulations , training or personal protective equipment .
employee trying to unchoke number 19 cement silo , banging on the side of the cone bottom . reached down to turn off the air to the silo and opened the wrong valve , which caused a pressurized silo to blow cement powder dust in both eyes . force knocked off glasses and hard hat from employee . prescription medication given to him for eyes in the hospital .
while employee was splitting stone , a piece from the wedge embedded itself into his right thigh .
employee was lining up back plate for primary crusher when the plate shifted . the edge of the plate knocked off his hard hat and caused a laceration to the left ear and a small laceration to his   forehead .
employee was roof bolting when a piece of rock approximately 4 '' x 4 '' fell on his left forearm .
employee was bolting roof and employee lowered t bar and a pice of draw rock fell striking employee on his back .
employee was attempting to shim a reach lock pin when his left middle finger was pinched between the clevis and the lock housing . the resulting laceration required stitches .
employee was making his checks on 2a belt . employee walked by a reducer that main personnel were working on and got some oil on his boot . when he started driving the steps he slipped and fell on his tailbone he suffered a bruise on his tailbone
employee was walking on a concrete slab , when he accidentally stepped off the side , which caused his foot to roll sideways and caused an ankle sprain .
one cross-cut inby spad 1833 in the number 1 entry adjacent to number 5 head intersection fell 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' . doesn't block travel way , timbered off contacted mine safety and health administration and state .
while preparing to off load a dumpster at trash yard employee slipped and fell on snow/ice in a non-designated travelway while attempting to chock vehicle . employee was seen by site medic complaining of low back pain and was referred to the emergency room , x-rays were positive for a tail bone fracture and restrictions were issued .
the employee started feeling pain in his left arm and neck . after consulting a doctor it was found he had a pinched nerve . he is unsure what he did to inflict this injury .
a roof fall occurred in the number 2 entry at 3b 5 north longwall at 93 cross-cut , survey station 116+00 . approximately 20 ' x 20 ' x 15 ' . investigated .
a cat d9l bulldozer employee had been operating ran over employee . the bulldozer ran over the edge of the refuse bank and came to rest at the bottom of the embankment . the victim was pronounce dead at the scene . the reason why the victim was outside the bulldozer when the accident occurred is under investigation .
employee attempting to secure set of steps to overcast while standing on them . the steps slid down overcast hurting employee's left arm .
employee was cutting with band saw on 06/23/05 , eye felt irritated when employee got off bus after work . got progressively worse overnight , and emergency medical technician found foreign body in eye on 06/24/05 when employee arrived at work . the metal sliver was removed with a needle by emergency room physician when flushing failed to dislodge it .
north 1 53 block , number 2 heading , 4-way intersection , mobile mining unit 003 8' high x 18' wide x 18' long . type of supports : 6' resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats . fall dangered off . additional roof supports set around fall .
employee was mucking out material on a decline . he activated the brakes and went onto the fender of the loader when the brakes caught completely . he was jarred when the mucker contacted the rib of the   decline . he was placed on restricted duty for muscle strain in his lower back .
it was rainy , wet and muddy . employee slipped and impact with ground caused back to lock up .
while climbing up on dozer , left foot slipped in between track .
employee was putting oil in the front engine of the backhoe . when he had finished , he raised up and hit his head on the automatic fire extinguisher nozzle .
on november 21 , 02 the employee was told he was going to be laid off on 11/22/02 . he then stated that he had injured his shoulder shoveling rock at the crusher on 10/31/02 and had not reported it previously .
employee was attempting to straighten a bent track pad on the cat 330b rock hammer . the pad was heeled and employee was pumping the hydraulic jack handle . the head of the jack sprang off striking his right hand .
while employee was descending down steps , while carrying water hose , hose caught at corner of railing pulling employee back enough to lose footing on stair treads . he fell onto right elbow on metal stair tread .
employee was loosening/tightening a fitting on a pneumatic conveying line ( flexible ) , when he experienced pain in his left shoulder . an mri revealed a torn rotator cuff , which will require surgery . note original accident report for back strain 1-23-03 , this report was filed 2-18-03 after employee visited physician .
employee was drilling a hole for a bolt when draw slate fell landing on the rotating pot of the bolter causing the rock to hit him in the face .
a unintentional roof fall was found during the weekly exam . area was 40 ft long by 20 ft wide by 7 ft high . area had been bolted with 8 ft conventional bolts . there was no injury or property damage reported .
employee was getting out of water truck for lunch break and slipped on bottom step and twisted right knee , skinned up left knee and shin .
while repairing loader bucket , flat bar struck employee's right hand .
based on info received   from those present it appears that the ignition was caused when a spark from the electric arc cutting procedure on the tailgate drum bit lug ignited and unknown methane blee der near the coal base bottom area . mine safety and health administration notified investigation conducted .
received a hearing loss claim for employee . he was laid off due to mine closure on 8/29/14 .
employee was operating a s-car hauling coal . he ran in a hole in the miner floor which caused the seat back to hit him in the lower back . he worked until 7-33-02. he went to the doctor and began missing   work on 7-23-02. the report was filed late due to the reasons i have noted .
employee was sitting on the ground cleaning a gate . when he stood up his right knee popped out .
reported 1/31/07 . believed to have occurred shortly before 11/28/06 ( 1st clinic visit ) . employee hit head on beam under smooth rolls while walking through pit area , thought to be a minor neck sprain . employee sought medical exam , xrays and mri , negative results . physical therapy prescribed thus constituting mine safety and health administration reportability . no restrictions noted . ( did several part time visits ) .
miner had just finished cutting 5 right heading in 001 mains and was starting to back out when the employee went to the miner to check on the pump that was going down . a piece of rock had fall en on the miner . as the operator was backing the miner out , the rock slid off the miner striking the employee on the left foot which required 3 sutures .
a person welding above where he was working welding on the number 14 hammermill . a piece of slag fell going down the back of his shirt causing a 2nd degree burn on his lower back .
employee stated he had just completed installation of his roof bolt and moved the boom over to install the third roof bolt . before starting installation of the third roof bolt he stepped back towards the roof bolter to change the bit on the drill steel . while he was in the process of changing the drill bit two rocks fell from the mine roof and struck his right leg between ankle and knee .
employee was riding out of the slope in a diesel mantrip when the trip started to slid backwards down the slope . after several attempts to stop the trip , the driver turned towards the arches to stop the ride . the impact caused employee , who was sitting in the last seat behind the driver to have contact the back wall of the mantrip .
an unplanned roof fall occurred approximately 10,000 ' from the active face , measuring 30 ' length x 20 ' width x 6 ' height . no injuries were reported and ventilation was not affected . passage of persons was affected . no equipment was involved . all entrances to fall have been breakered off and the area will not be rehabilitated .
a roof fall occurred in the e-29 longwall section . the roof fall was located on the face and in the number 3 belt entry . the fall was approximately 3 ' in front of the number 2 and number 3 shield tips and extended outby in the beltline to just inby the crusher . the immediate roof consisted of a laminated shale type material . it fell approximately 7 ' above the anchorage of the 8 ' bolts used in the area .
employee was setting up to install channel iron . he was pulling on an extension cord when he felt a foreign object in his left eye . he received a corneal abrasion from the material . employee is not losing any time and is not on work restrictions .
the ground laborer was attempting to connect rope to the right hand side of the blade of the 10 rubbertire dozer . the rubbertire operator moved the rubbertire forward so the ground laborer could hook up the rope to the blade . he dropped the blade on to the ground , not aware that the blade was on the foot of the ground laborer .
replacing liners in mill , a roller section is used to transfer the liners from outside to inside . a liner rolled off the end of the roller section striking another liner . employee was bending down to pick up a bolt , the liners struck sending a sliver of metal above his safety glasses .
the hoist car went down at 1:40am and was put back in service at 2:15am . the   e   stop was in and needed pulled out .
employee was operating the tail locomotive while moving a power center . the power center derailed and caught a discharge line connected to an air pump . the pump was pulled into the operator's compartment striking the employee in the back . there was no lack of job skills , training , personal protective equipment , or equipment protective devices .
on february 27 , 2015 welder received welding flash burn to eyes . receive prescription strength ibuprofen , tylenol and antibiotic eye drops . received two days restricted duty and released to full duty on 3/2/2015 .
while spotting super posts at 7h headgate - employee and the foreman leaned their post on the rib beside another - the other one fell and hit employee on the left side of the face - laceration on left eye , 3 sutures .
college temp . employee was taking water line out of a doorway in an arch . as employee was handling materials , employee pinched hand between the water line and coal rib .
employee was resetting a breaker . an electrical flash occurred causing burns to his upper chest , face , and left side of his head .
the employee was on his knees drilling hole into a teflon bucket liner and as he was getting up his left knee popped and he felt pain in it . he continued to work within his classification . on april 30 th , he was examined by doctor and scheduled for an mri on may 4th . on may 18th doctor performed surgery on his left knee and it went well . employee is currently restricted to light duty ( desk ) for next 6 weeks .
employee was a passenger in a jeep that was stopped on the haulage . a 20 ton motor slid into the jeep causing the employee to injure neck and lower back . the employee continues to work however employee has started physical therapy on 5/09/2018 .
was walking to section from mantrip . he stepped over a wet area and slipped twisting his right knee .
employee reported that while working overtime in granulation plant she felt tightness and tenderness develop in her left knee . unknown cause . employee knee swollen with pain . iced and elevated and took ibuprofen but no relief . went to company doctor and received anti-inflammatory and restrictive duty .
7c track entry break 11 roof fall 6 ft high 30 ft long 18 ft wide . no injuries were reported as and result of this roof fall .
employee was driving company truck without permission . this truck had transmission problems and was stopped and out of service in our facility . supervisors and mechanics advised him not to drive it until they fixed it . he didn't care and used it causing a fire on the vehicle . when employee tried to combat the fire , steam affected his face producing irritation . the co has suspended the employee for 2 weeks .
he drills granite with a jackhammer and steel . he was setting up steel and setting jackhammer down on steel and missed retainer . the jackhammer slipped and steel bent and hit him on forehead .
the employee was in the process of roof bolting a heading . after finishing a row of bolts , he went to the rear of the roof bolting machine to get a piece of hog panel . he bent over to pick up the sheet of hog panel , and felt a pain in his back .
the number 6 elevator descended to the bottom landing , passengers departed , doors closed and elevator would not return to surface landing . a line starter had burned up . this conveyance is not part of   the mine escapeway .
employee was driving a terex 3066 c articulated rear dump truck down a steep gravel haul road into a turn . the equipment's rear tandem tires began to `` buck jump '' . employee applied brakes . truck slid sideways and turned over on right side . employee caught arm in steering wheel and broke right humerus .
employee was on the ground flagging a load of patio stone and nearby was a track hoe . she turned to walk towards the loading area when , at the exact same time , the operator of the track hoe starting walking the hoe . the hammer on the boom of the track hoe knocked her several feet before hitting the ground .
a roof fall was discovered in the 5th northwest submain cross-cut 18 , number 3 entry , at spad # 14+40 in the number 9 seam . the approximate size of the fall was length - 40 ft , width - 20 ft and height - 6 ft plus .
this mechanic was repairing a mantle for a cone crusher a pad eye was welded to the mantle and a t3 ton chain come-along was attached and pressure applied to loosed the 5g nut holding the mantle together . the weld on the pad eye broke the come-along which the mechanic was operating hit his right shoulder . the injury resulted in a acromioclavicular separation that required surgery . a safer method using
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee .
employee climbed up side of conveyor to clean out 2nd receiving box on telescoping stacker when stacker telescoped in and caught right foot between conveyor frame . 5th metatarsal fracture and toe laceration   to right foot . treatment was a splint and sutures .
employee reported back pain believe to be caused by the loader seat .
north 4 , 7 entry , 71 block , spad number 8273 , mobile mining unit 004 . 18 ft wide x 30 ft long x 10 ft high . support 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , straps , 12 ft cable truss bolts , screen . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall and clean up plan posted .
employee was cleaning up area net to storage shed when employee slipped on rock with muddy boot
employee stepped off the back of the service truck onto an unstable surface rock and twisted knee .
employee was moving roof bolt machine and caught his left foot between the deck and mine floor .
the employee stepped of a ditch witch 8020 rock saw and twisted his ankle when he touched the ground . employee was off work until 12-3-2007. when he came back , staff looked at his ankle and directed him to go to the emergency clinic right away . the ankle was x-rayed and found to be broken . employee was casted and sent home .
employee helping maintenance person to reweld chute employee burned both eyes did not feel any pain until after shift . employee went to er that night because of pain
employee worked overtime and ate lunch provided by noranda . began feeling ill and thought it was a stomach virus . upon returning home from work , the symptoms worsened and he was admitted to a hospital . he was diagnosed with colitis . the physician stated that whatever he had eaten 8 hours prior to his symptoms starting is what made him ill .
employee was coupling a belt trailer tongue to a diesel vehicle . belt trailer tongue was suspended in the air using a come along . trailer tongue did not align with the hole on the vehicle bumper . using his left hand , he pushed trailer tongue to align with the vehicle bumper hole. come along chain suddenly slid down the tongue catching his finger resulting in a laceration .
at first break employee noticed eye irritation . he has no idea the source but thought it was an eyelash . employee is a motor mechanic and had done no grinding nor any task that would contribute to getting a foreign body in his eye . awoke the following day and had more irritation so went to clinic .
employee supposedly hit his head while walking under over cast , break off track at break 33 see attached notes .
employee was tramming a d11 dozer when he unexpectedly ran over a big rock the jar caused pain in his hip area .
employee was hanging bolter cable across entry when he twisted his right knee . employee continued to work and was taken off work on 4/1/2015 to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament to his right knee .
7 h section while walking past the load center , he stepped on the rubber shock mat with muddy boots , slipped and fell twisting his right knee .
fall occurred over the weekend with no personnel in the mine . the fall encompassed an area 45 ' wide , 100 ' long , 8 ' thick . adverse geological conditions , mud , slips and faults we believe contributed   to the fall . we stopped mining in this room approximately   two weeks ago due to these conditions .
unintentional roof fall . location 4 southwest number 4 entry at spad no . 7021. size 20 ft wide 130 ft long and 7-8 ft high . roof support : 5 ft tension bar .
the employee was struck below the right knee , causing an open tibia fracture , by a piece of metal banding that was released from under a front-end loader as the employee was spotting the front end loader operator .
subject was drilling hole for a bolt , when piece of draw rock fell , striking him on the right hand . he did not seek medical attention for injury and hasn't as to date of this report ; he came by office and said he felt doctor wasn't necessary .
employee was changing the drill hammer . he broke the hammer loose and began replacing the chuck , when the hammer unit fell , catching his left index finger between the hammer unit and the drill deck .
employee when working in his area cone crusher he was wearing his personal protective equipment and harness and he slipped and fell 5 ft from the ground never lost consciousness he was complaining about his left hand and his neck when ems arrived he was triage he refused transportation next day went to see doctor could not stand the pain .
employee was inspecting the pattern of whizzer blades in the cement mill separator when dust vibrated off of separator and entered right eye . given prescription eye drops for conjunctivitis on 1/9/07 .
crew were pulling 5 ' tube . employee grabbed the tube with left hand and released the overshot with right hand . when overshot release employee lost balance . regained balance and pulled the tube out of drill string . later complained of pain in lower back .
employee was handmucking the face , when he experienced pain in his right shoulder . his doctor took him off work on 6/19/2007 .
employee suffered a hearing loss identified through newmont mining corporation's hearing conservation program .
employee was removing a cutting edge from a skidsteer with an impact gun . when nut loosened he was holding bolt in with his finger . the bolt dropped and spun cutting his left index finger ( 9 sutures )
unplanned roof   fall occurred at break number 15 ( number 2 belt ) in the number 2 right entry cross-cut . at spad # 82. the fall was approximately   20 ' long x 18' wide . x 6 ' high no injuries or entrapment involved . no escapeways , walkways , equipment or ventilation affected . jacks have been set in area .
at approximately   5:35 am , a roof fall at or above the anchorage was discovered in the a entry return of the 4 north mains . the fall was approximately   20 ft long 18 ft wide and 6 ft high . there were no injuries or property damage . the fall was dangered off and the return was rerouted .
doing repair on excavator bucket ; piece of metal slipped ; cut and broke 3 fingers on left hand
while helping two other employee's hang miner cable , employee experienced pain in his groin area afterwards .
incident was to have occurred while this employee was walking behind the scoop . he said he tripped over a crib block laying on the mine floor covered up with rockdust . when he fell he landed on   his elbow . cause of this injury was awareness and not picking up tripping hazards laying around . compliance with rules/regulations not a factor ; miner proficiency a factor . equip . not a factor .
at approximately   12:10 am on 1/5/2014 a roof fall above the anchorage was found in the f ( intake ) entry of the 6 left off 4 north section . the roof fall was at survey spad # 21+10 and extended inby to about 21+50 . the fall was about 40 ft   long 17 ft . wide and 6.5 ft   high . all areas were dangered off around it and the escapeway was rerouted . there were no injuries or property damage .
employee states : working on feeder , pulling on hydraulic hose and pulled lower back .
employee was flagging overhead crane when hook caught on mill door , then it suddenly freed itself and landed on top of his right foot .
employee was walking in a tight area between a mantrip vehicle and the rib of the drift . there was a sharp edge on the fuel tank . as he was walking by he ran his left forearm over the burr which caused a laceration . the laceration required 21 sutures and he was released full duty for his next shift .
a unplanned roof fall occurred on the main north , entry number 5 , spad 36+00 , cross-cut   54. the fall is approximately 70 ' in length x 18 ' wide x 8 ' high .
injured ( leadman was assisting his crew with a stuck uniloader . the forks of the uniloader struck the roof meshing , causing a piece of the wire to propel and imbed in the injured's throat . met al piece was removed at the local emergency room .
employee was changing dump rope on marion 8050 dragline . when the rope was moved , a loop of the dump rope struck the employee in the ribs . he was transported to colstrip medical center and then to billings deaconess hospital .
employee was preparing to go through a mandoor when he slipped and fell in the mud twisting his left knee . lost time injury as of 3/7/11 due to surgery .
slipped on wet floor while using a squeegee to clean up spilled material , injured right shoulder trying to prevent fall . employee reported injury , did not seek medical attention until october 14 . 2006 when he was taken to hospital with shoulder pain . he has not missed any work hours due to this injury , as to date .
a roof fall occurred on number 1 unit , 8th northeast panel # 6 entry 30 ' outby spad no . 32956. in the same line with the feeder at cross cut 14. the fall didn't affect ventilation .
employee stated she was turning off the valve on a 3/4 '' water line when she turned loose the hose with one hand the hose flew back hit above right eye
employee was using a bar to pry up a wheel and got his hand smashed between the bar and the wheel .
employee was lifting mancage door - the door had been hard to open because of its weight . when attempted to open the door he twisted his back . he had pulled a muscle in his back 2 months previous lifting   the same door . he aggravated an old injury . although the accident happened on 4/30/03 , employee went back to his normal job until 5/22/03 .
employee was climbing up on a d8n dozer to fuel it . he foot slipped and he landed standing up . he alleges pain in his low back . he slipped from 1 st step which is 18 '' from ground level .
a roof fall occurred in the number 7 entry 250 feet inby spad # 18010. the fall was about 20 ft wide , 40 ft long , and 8 foot high . the area was bolted with 5 foot torque tension bolts . the fall was crib and danger off , and will not be clean up .
employee was installing a chain binder to secure longwall pan line to the supply car . when he stood up he felt a sharp pain in lower left side of his back .
employee was walking to the transportation van in the parking lot and slipped on a piece of steel causing   her to fall to the ground .
employee strained his shoulder while lifting/moving a hydraulic pump at the wedag crusher of the secondary crushing plant .
was installing a driveshaft into equipment when employee experienced a sharp pain in his back , the next morning it was not any better .
employee was blocking the lime and screening bin doors open with 4 '' x 8 '' x 16 '' wood blocks to prevent the doors from becoming frozen shut over the weekend. he placed 1 block in the number 8 bin door and another employee   closed the door on the block . he then placed 1 block in the number 7 bin door , and the other employee closed the door on the block . when the number 7 bin door came shut it pushed the block toward the block
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee no % disability at this time .
during a 2 man procedure of changing screens on 36 hummer , the proximal west side screen became jammed . employee positioned self on the edge of the opening to forcefully move screen . lost balance and slipped off edge hitting left chest wall on metal edges that protrude from side of hummer .
at 11:00 pm on 9/6/04 a fall was discovered in number 5 entry on number 1 section 1 break outby spad # 17569. the fall was 30 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high .
setting down twisting over reaching down to pull up board and putting it in place . boards were being handed up to him from below .
injured was installing belt structure over a belt drive . employee placed one end of a rail in the spreader and was climbing down to place the other end of rail . employee put hand on the motor to climb down and the rail fell striking hand .
employee was working on gates at the front entrance . he was using a hammer to drive a pin out of a hinge on the front gate . a piece of metal flew up and hit employee on the chin . the piece of metal went through his chin and chipped a lower tooth . dermabond was used to close the laceration in his chin .
slipped in a hole , twisted right knee on the longwall set up face in 15 west . continued to work until 10-7-06 .
fall in bleeder system 1 break outby spad number 951 .
employee sought medical attention on 7/18 for a strained shoulder that occurred when he released a brake on a rail car . he was released to full duty . he had an mri and an appointment with an orthopedic surgeon on 8/16 revealed a torn rotator cuff . he is currently on restricted duty while awaiting surgery . this is being reported within 10 days of being placed on work restrictions .
when air arc a piece of metal off in a haul truck located in the mine shop , truck bay , sparks came up under the welding hood and safety glasses . thus causing a small superficial abrasion on the 3 o'clock of left eye's cornea . no foreign bodies on cornea or conjunctiva .
while putting in coal , he lifted wrong and strained his lower back . ( employee was shoveling coal into coal tanks . )
employee stated he was walking to mantrip , when he stepped on a piece of coal , causing him to twist his right knee and fall to bottom/mine floor . employee started missing work as a result of this incident on 9/25/08 .
our examiners found a roof fall during their weekly examination of the 3 left 4 main north ( 5a ) panel . the fall was located at cross-cut 16 between entries 2 and 1. the fall was approximately 50 ' long , 18 ' wide and 7 feet high . the fall did not extend into either intersection and was confined to the cross-cut . the fall was located adjacent to the examiners route of travel .
ie was struck by a piece of roof rock . the rock approximately 6 '' x 8 '' x 0-2 '' thick slid off the end of wire roof mesh and struck employee on the top side of employee's left forearm . this resulted in a laceration requiring 7 sutures to close .
the employee was working out near the dredge when the accident occurred . he was sitting on the bow of the jon boat attempting to pull the starboard swing cable back over the sheave while his heels were positioned on either side of the sheave to hold the boat in place . while the employee was pulling on the cable , the jon boat backed away turning his right leg .
the plant was shut down when employee went to install b58 belt on classifier fan . he pulled on belt and assistant pushed , causing his right pinky finger to run between belt and sheave . finger was broken and bleeding due torn tissue . he was taken to specialist in powell , wyoming for successful surgery . though serious , this injury was not life threatening .
tightening down preheater elements at filter farm . sprain of upper arm
employee reported their right thumb was sore on 5/29 from operating the caterpillar d8 . employee was evaluated on 5/29 with a strained right thumb and put on modified duty . on 5/31 employee was evaluated and released to full duty .
car hit hole in bottom hard jarred back while running shuttle car
claims exposure to nuisance dust caused sinus problems . opened doors of environmental cab to chew and smoke tobacco . minimal exposure to dust . employee did not report this for 9 months .
the employee was flipping over a steel plate on a work table when it fell and struck him on the top of his left foot . he sustained a fracture of the first left metatarsal bone .
worker was connecting a hose to a jumbo drill using a snaplock victaulic coupling . the coupling was difficult to snap closed so worker struck the snap handle with a wrench . the coupler closed   pinching his left middle finger .
traveling too fast down an incline , he tried to slow down by applying left brake . he applied too hard and the engine was neutralized . steering became difficult and he lost control , side-swiped a pickup , ran up a berm and turned on its side. he received minor cuts and scrapes on left leg . the rock breaker is repairable .
no specific incident. he has been a mechanic for 13+ years and reported discomfort in his right knee attributable to ongoing , repetitive bending , kneeling and crouching down while performing routine mechanic duties. doctor prescribed restrictions that we were unable to accommodate - resulted in him missing his next 4 shifts. follow-up appointment - he received a full release. will file return to work on next shift 7/30/13
power was lost to spider and needed to be restored . four miners were trapped . there were 111 us steel employees working at time of entrapment and 24 contractors . mine safety and health administration was notified at 4:56 pm .
the employee went to the company clinic on 5/1/2006 and was placed on restricted duty . the employee allegedly strained his lumbar spine while shoveling materials , resulting in a herniated disc . ( alleged )
employee was installing a 6 '' x 20 ' steel conveyor belt line structure . one end fell of forks of forklift . employee straddled the structure and lifted it back onto forks the forklift operator raised the forks before employee was clear , striking employee in groin .
it was raining and when it got to work the employee got on the bumper of the pickup truck and slipped and fell on the ground about 3 or 4 feet to the ground landing on the lumbar and pelvic area of his body resulting in back and pelvic pain .
employee while helping another employee lift separation lid off strained his back .
the employee slipped after showering . he grabbed a locker door to catch himself . he cut his tight thumb on the door . stitches were used on the laceration .
employee was assisting in installation of bottom side course refuse screen discharge chute . employee was sitting on a pipe working when a come along under the leg broke causing employee to lose balance and fall to the floor . this resulted in employee receiving 3 stitches on the back of the head .
employee was coming out of the cab of the dozer , walking on the tracks to step down to the ground , when employee stepped into the area of a missing plate on the track . employee's right foot slipped into a missing track piece which is around 8 '' x 24 '' in diameter . employee twisted right knee with a possible medial collateral ligament strain . an mri was done , waiting for results . this will be a lost time accident .
employee was struck by shotcrete falling from the roof .
employee was jostled while seated ( seatbelt on ) in the cab of a haul truck while being loaded . on 3/13/2018 employee went to the doctor where they were prescribed physical therapy making the event reportable .
employee was attempting to clear a bagger spout with a metal rod . while checking to see if spout was open , hydrated lime shot out of spout . the lime deflected off the cross member of the seat causing some lime to get into employee's left eye . employee flushed eye out but after 45 minutes it still was bothering him . employee went to emergency room .
two workers were doing repair work on the top deck of the telesmith screen which required some welding . one was helping hold the metal to be welded into place while the other did the welding . he apparently suffered some flash burns while the metal was being tacked into place even though he was in the open and not looking directly at the arc . he didn't have difficulty until that night
the employee slipped while getting out of the bed of a pickup truck after retrieving an item and his lower right leg contacted the truck as he fell . there were no initial signs of an injury other than a small bruise . as the day progressed the bruising and swelling increased . ultimately the employee had ruptured a small artery causing a hematoma that had to be surgically relieved .
employee had an apparent heart attack at number 34 cross-cut at the number 3 track switch . victim was riding ( passenger ) . the mantrip operator stopped to throw the switch , looked back and noticed him slumped over in mantrip .
individual has been granted an award for permanent impairment resulting from noise induced hearing loss .
employee was hanging curtain in cross cut for scoop to get through to clean . scoop car backed over foot .
the employee was changing the hammer valve on the south line . the valve spun and the employee reached out to grab it - it came to a stop against the pipe wedging the employees finger , causing a laceration to left index finger .
employee has experienced a standard threshold shift in employee's hearing in the 2000 , 3000 and 4000 hz level as compared to the baseline reading in 2011 .
the employee and a coworker were attempting to put a bolt into a victaulic hugger when the clamp that was being used to hold the hugger in place slipped off the hugger smashing the employee's middle finger   on his left hand .
employee was checking 15 and 16 precipitator , after checking 15 and 16 precipitator employee crossed over pipes to close 3 fill header , employee tripped over pipes and fell on his back .
employee was stepping off of manlift onto the 160 conveyor catwalk when he strained his left knee .
as the propman was traveling towards the headgate of the longwall , the face yielded and a large lump of coal came over the panline striking the individual on his left side knocking him back in to the shields . this occurred at shield 115-116 where there are 147 shield on the face . this caused a fracture of the right femur .
customer driver was tarping trailer when he lost his footing and fell backwards approximately 6 ft to the ground . the skin was broken on his scalp and left arm was tender and swollen .   first aid was administered and he was transported by ems to hospital . he was treated and released with instructions to have follow-up x-rays to determine if elbow is broken . he is still under doctor care as of 6/6/08 .
employee was using a pneumatic torque wrench to tighten the u bolts on leaf springs . he was holding the wrench in his right hand and stabilizing the bolt with his left hand . he inadvertently had the gun set to loosen instead of tighten , when he pulled the trigger the gun moved in opposite direction than he anticipated pinching the palm of his left hand . resulting in stitches .
employee was taking a rock off a skid to place on his cutting table , he felt a strain in his pelvic area . he had been diagnosed as having an inguinal hernia .
while the employee was attempting to upright an approximately 200 pound steel shaft from ground level to a vertical position , the shaft slipped from his hands and crushed the tips of his fingers against   the floor .
employee suffering from symptoms of diabetic trauma , contacted ems for transport to bluefield regional medical center . reported later that employee has infection in employee's foot from a prior amputation of toe .
employee was standing on the grates covering the pit . one of the grates slipped and he struck his lower left leg on a small metal rod sticking out from one of the grates . employee had several sutures and a 1 cm x 1 cm puncture wound .
when employee was working in the kiln on 1/24/00 and 1/25/00 , he went to throw bricks through the kiln on the morning of 1/25/00 when he felt a sharp burning pain/sensation in his right and left shoulder   area . the pain and burning sensation is still present and intense as it was at first . he is seeking medical attention on 1/28/00 .
employee was helping remove table from vertical shaft impactor crusher . table bound on the shaft suddenly released . table came to rest hitting employee's legs against crusher wall . employee extricated himself immediately .
employee caught the tip of his left ring finger between the tailgate and grain lock on dump trailer . he was pulling tailgate away from trailer when his ring finger got caught on grain lock severing the tip of his finger .
employee states he was operating the cm when a piece of cap rock fell just inby the last row of bolts . the cap rock struck the end of the ventilation tube , causing the tube to fall and strike him on the head and neck .
employee was clearing a duct using a steel jackhammer bit as a pry bar . a chunk of material struck the end of the bit causing it to pivot upwards striking the employee's chin causing a laceration   and fracture of his jaw bone .
a roof fall occurred in the # 2b intake entry number 5 just inby 9500'w . the roof fall is approximately 65' long x 18' wide x 12' high . the roof was supported with 6 ' and 10 ' point anchor roof bolts . the fall will be cleaned up and resupported with roof bolts and arches .
employee was disconnecting a discharge hose from a 6 '' water pump . the pump had been running but not pumping and had become very hot , the hose was full of steam . when the line came loose it hit the employee causing burns to his right   arm and leg .
in attempt to remove a 50 lb bag from the production line , the bag tilted over forcing employee's right hand and wrist to be strained .
employee was using a piece of metal/pipe to clear an aggregate blockage at the crushing plant chute . when the blockage began to clear , pieces of loose aggregate fell on employee right hand . the falling aggregates caused two small cuts , a swollen middle finger and some numbness in the pinky finger .
employee was cutting rubber protectors with a utility knife on the dry deck and lacerated palm of his right   hand requiring stitches .
the employee was assisting a coworker . he was holding a bolt in place while the coworker was using an impact gun . when the bolt spun , it cut his left index finger . he was transported to the emergency room . for treatment and the cut was closed with sutures .
on 4/2/2009 employee was in the process of hooking up a 4 ' retrieval hook link and it slipped out of his hand and fell on his right hand middle finger mashing it against the launch pad . first aid was administered and he was transported to summersville hospital for treatment .
while making a conveyor belt splice , employee received a laceration that required 3 sutures to close .
employee's knees got infected due to his knee pad straps irritating the back of his knees .
employee was performing his normal job duties which include bending , lifting , etc . the following morning he wok with lower back pain .
on 4-14-00 employee twisted his knee working on the leach pad , but did not go to a doctor on 5-25-00 while doing his pre-shift walk around he tripped over a flange left on a stair case , reinjuring the sa me knee . he didn't go to a doctor until 5-31-00 and had on mri done on july 14th . the mri showed a cartilage was torn but he will not be operated on until november .
employee was climbing ladder to the haul truck cab . he claims his left knee popped and he felt pain .
employee was trying to start the lt-58 lo-trac and could not . employee opened the engine cover to see if the breaker was knocked , the engine cover came down on employee's right index finger causing injury to the tip end of the finger .
employee was using a 2 lb sledge and steel bar to position wedge on steadman crusher when he missed bar and struck his left hand with 2 lb sledge .
in the number 9 entry 1 block inby spad number 5148 , a roof fall 8' high x 25' long x 17' wide occurred . the area was mined 4 years ago , it is not a normal travelway . the mine examiner noted a change there week prior to the fall and set breaker posts and dangered it off expecting a fall soon . the area was bolted with 5/8 x 60 '' resin bolts with 8 x 8 plates .
a welder with ( approximately 23 years experience ) was removing 1 '' roundstock out of a steel rack on the rougher floor . the piece of steel was approximately 20 feet long , weighing about 53 lbs . as he was pulling the steel off the rack , he felt a pain in his lower back .
employee was prying with a pipe to close a reclaim gate . the pipe slipped , pinching his thumb between the pipe and the reclaim gate .
employee was emptying the baghouse hopper . the dust from it went up pant leg .
employee was replacing buckets on a clinker bucket elevator when the wind came up blowing dust in eyes . administered first aid at plant and then sent to eye care center to remove particles . prescription   was issued .
while driving the coal hauler , employee hit a rut causing her to bounce up and landed hard on the seat , resulting in discomfort on her back and leg .
employee had been running a rubber tired loader number 4382 and hurt his back while operating the loader . don't know when injury occurred employee's last day at work was 10/14 then he was rained out/lack of work . injury wasn't reported until 10/17 to foreman .
employee pulled hose up steep hill , and was coming back down when his feet slipped and he fell 15 ft down and then tumbled another 15 ft down .
employee number 1 was getting off manbus . another employee number 2 in front of him was talking so employee number 1 walked around employee number 2 and slipped and fell injuring his right knee . there was nothing in the walkway that he tripped over or slipped on .
employee had a drill steel lodged in the mine roof when installing an 8 foot double lock bolt . while he was in the process of getting the drill steel out of the roof , he accidentally caught his left index finger between the bolter wrench and the mine roof . he was taken to the hospital and had to have stitches to close a cut on the index finger .
a fall was found by employee and reported to foreman in the northwest section approximately   20 ' inby station number 329 in the number 1 entry . the fall is about 20 ' wide by 80 ' long and 5-6 ' in height . ventilation   was not interrupted . all walls found intact . area was timbered and dangered off .
employee hit his knee on belt structure .
employee was disassembling a f-900 screen . he was stepping down from the tube cover to the floor area and his left foot landed on a 3 x 3 piece of angle iron and sprained his left ankle . employee did not go the clinic until later that night .
on 01/13/2018 , employee was walking to mobile equipment and right leg became stuck in mud up to about shin . employee was offered professional medical treatment and declined . instead treated leg with ice ( first aid ) . employee requested professional medical treatment and was treated on 02/26/2018 . employee was assigned restrictions by medical .
employee was stepping over a screwline when his foot got caught on the screw causing him to fall . when he went to catch himself he sprained his wrist . x-rays revealed a small chip in his wrist .
employee was working on a chunk of clinker in the reclaim tunnel with a pry bar . bar slipped and employee smashed his hand between pry bar and side of feeder .
the employee stated that he had just completed installing a corner roof bolt at 5-6 cross-cut . he had his hand resting on the tray of the bolter , and as he was retracting the boom assembly back in toward the roof bolting machine , the roof bolts on the tray of the roof bolter slid forward , pinching his left index finger between the lip on the tray and the roof bolts .
employee suffered lime burn to both eyes. the employee and his coworker were raking refractory bricks out of the kiln hood. was wearing the required face shield/safety glasses , he felt a sharp burning pain in both of eyes. he immediately stopped and flushed eyes out. employee then went to emergency room and was given prescription eye drops and saw a specialist that monday .
the injured employee was loosening hand brake on rail car when he slipped and hit bottom on the car drawhead . the accident was determined to be `` lost time '' on 07/11/2005 .
employee was working indoors in the chilton manufacturing building packaging stone . employee was trimming a stone using a hammer and chisel and missed the top of the chisel . this resulted in the hammer striking the employee's right index finger .
employee slipped on slate and coal while filling water tank on the maintenance vehicle for filling batteries . employee fell down under the vehicle and hurt his right hip and right shoulder - lower back pain . initial x-rays negative . 1st day missed was 1/6/06 ( mine was shut down 1 week at christmas ) . x-ray and mri by ortho . specialist . diag . vertebra problem , surgical repair required .
employee was walking through mill building ; she ducked under new tails line pipe and upon standing up she hit her head on the pipe . employee lost her footing and stumbled forward , striking her head on the contractor gang box and then falling and landing on her right leg and arm .
employee was prying on a liner when it came loose and fell on employee's foot . after walking around , foot started to swell ; employee was taken to the emergency room , and referred to a specialist . ongoing .
employee was running a 488 scoop in the outby area at number 6 belt head . the scoop ran over an old track tie , causing it to pop up and hit him on the right arm causing a laceration which required 9 stitches   .
employee was picking up tray ( approximately 5 lb ) out of tool box and had low back pain .
terex haulage truck operator washed the unit and then started to move to a parking area when the unit died . he exited the cab to check the engine compartment . when lifting the hood he slipped on the wet vehicle and slid to the ground ( gravel road ) landing on his knees .
employee was crawling over gob at number 1 shield and slipped , injuring his left hip and left knee .
employee reported to work 6/4/00 with lump on shoulder . claimed had been stung by wasp 3 days previously ; later claimed it by spider , later horsefly - while sitting at desk in office trailer . no wit ness and not reported to foreman at the time . sent to emergency room 6/4/00 .
while walking down stairs from 4t-04 , employee felt pain in right knee
an unexplained roof fall ( slip ) occurred . no equipment , entrapment , or airways were interrupted . the slip was 5 ' wide x 4.5 ' thick and 15 ' long . the location of the slip was at break 217 on number 12 belt . this fall was not above anchorage , but the current mine safety and health administration inspector felt we should report it .
the employee was closing the exterior door for the overtracks silo elevator when his finger was caught between the handle ( on the top door ) and the bottom door . the door is a bi-parting door . when the top section of the door is pulled downward the bottom section automatically moves upward until the sections meet . both sections are equipped with rubber astragal .
employee alleges was cutting a zip tie and the utility knife slipped and cut employee's left hand . employee received stitches .
removing filter bags from cages on baghouse , repetitive motion . reported injury to supervisor on 12/8/05 . employee thought it was just sore muscles , but pain has not diminished . pete lien and sons employees went to wyoming lime producers to help with annual maintenance . issues . employee normally works at the pete lien and sons rapid city quarry and mill , 39-00020 .
employee was digging out product that had stopped up screw and hauling away with wheel barrel . the next day his back was locked up and had to have help out of bed .
employees foot was caught between the metal frame of a airlock door and a rubber tired personnel   carrier .
walking across worksite , slipped on ice and fell onto ground hitting her knee
he was inside the cab of the auger preparing to change out the heads . he was reaching for the door and caught his hand between crowd liver and guard he was taken to the whitsburg r&amp;r   . they   did partial amputation on his middle finger of the right hand and kept him in the hospital .
a roof fall was found while walking a weekly exam . in size it was 17' x 20' x 5 ' high max . it is located number 1 entry between cross-cut 2-3 of the 3 l1w panel neck this is also cross-cut 6 off the 1 west   return . the fall was caused by a slip and wet conditions . no one was injured no property damage .
employee had soreness/aching in his shoulder from performing repetitive work . had carpal tunnel surgery october 2010 hoping this would take care of the pain . pain persisted and worsened by performing the same work , he reported back to doctor complaining of same pain . doctor scheduled mri january 2011 , results show a tear in shoulder , scheduled surgery march 2011 .
employee was tramming dozer towards parking lot when he was blinded by the sun . the dozer dropped over a hump , hitting the blade and causing the dozer to stop abruptly . employee hit his head on cab of dozer ( 11 stitches to forehead . )
employee was trying to flip/roll 6 '' rubber pump line that was full of water . as he was doing this motion he felt a burning in his right bicep/shoulder . employee continued to work until a later date when he went and seen a doctor who sent him to a specialist that told him he would need to have the tendon repaired . employee worked until day of surgery 8-29-13 then returned to work on 8-30-13
supervisor was holding a pair of channel locks pliers holding a bolt . the pliers slipped and he cut his hand on a sharp piece of the face flight cause of injury was not wearing protective gloves   compliance with rules/regulations a factor , protective equip a factor miner attitude a factor mining equipment/systems could be a factor
employee awarded 1.5 % hearing loss .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis claim for employee on 10/1/2013 .
employee was setting support at the corner of cross-cut 53 in 2mn 2e where there was a previous rib roll . injured employee had scaled the roof prior to setting a timber . injured employee was slightly bent forward to install the timber between the edge of the roof mesh and the rib . the rib sloughed off and a piece of cap rock struck the injured employee .
tightening bolt on variable implement pump on northshore mining - babbits number 228 992g loader . bolt in difficult access location so a short wrench was used . employee was pulling on wrench with all he had and felt a a muscle tore in his navel area . went to emergency room and was diagnosed with a umbilical hernia ( belly button ) . employee may/will need surgery .
while untangling a rope , structure shifted and employee fell down and hurt his back . employee is not expected to return to work due to permanent restrictions .
an operator cut his right ear on a pneumatic fitting while trying to remove a busted bag from a conveyor . operator was moving from the backside of the bagger between the bagger spouts to remove the busted bag . operator did not shut the conveyor off to remove the bag , therefore he was moving through the area quickly in an attempt to remove the busted bag from the conveyor .
employee was reaching into tool box when lid fell striking his right hand , lacerating his knuckle .
employee was hired on 5/27/04 as a mechanic . due to continuing neck pain , employee had mri of his neck conducted on 9/10/04 . on 9/14/04 employer received mri results stating that employee had developed spondylosis and facet hypertrophy . ( employee placed on restricted duty on 9/16/04 . )
employee was bolting the face of number 2 entry in 5 west development section when a piece of roof coal fell from the immediate mine roof striking him in the right ear . personal protective equipment was not a factor , mining systems was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
employee stepped on uneven surface and twisted ankle .
employee had complaints of numbness and tingling in both hands . was diagnosed with carpal tunnel . employee had surgery on 12-06-02. she returned to work on 12-09-02. her next scheduled workday . employee will be working with restrictions of one hand duty only for 2-4 weeks . will have surgery on left hand at a later date .
employee used a cigarette lighter to inspect water level in 12 volt battery . battery exploded in employee's face . safety glass were being .
employee was loading shotgun shells into a single shot kiln gun . another employee was firing the gun . he had placed a shell into the firing chamber when the other employee closed the firing mechanism before his   finger was out of the way . his right middle finger tip was pinched between the shell and the firing mechanism . it was cut and required 3 sutures .
employee was waiting on miner when a piece of falling material fell striking him on his middle and ring fingers . 7000-1 is being filed in order to terminate a citation written during a part 50 audit . did not know until this time that the employee had a fracture to the tip of his finger , due to the fact that he returned to work the next day to his regular job .
employee was assisting b &amp; g service technician with replacement of impeller and housing on number 5 underflow booster pump . employee was standing 4 ' from service truck when lightning struck the citizens band antenna on truck knocking employee to ground .
employee stated he was helping a coworker put a bearing on number 5 belt take-up carriage roller shaft . he was straddling belt roller and holding the bearing as the coworker was knocking bearing onto roller shaft with chisel and hammer . several pieces of metal flew off bearing striking him in left arm and leg . pieces of metal became lodged in arm and were removed by a doctor and sutures applied .
employee was bolting top and a piece of draw rock fell striking employee on his right foot causing a bruise .
laying rail in 23d , moving the rail with a slate bar 18 '' butting it up to the installed rail to install a fishplate and felt a pain in the lower stomach/groin area . diagnosed with hernia on 6/2/14 . no issue with mining machines , methods , personal protective equipment or compliance .
employee got lime dust in left eye while measuring kiln silos lowered tape measure into measuring port causing dust to blow up in face and under glasses .
employee states he was cleaning a feeder belt chute with a rod and hit hand against piece of iron .
he was lifting a crusher wear plate and turned wrong . strained his left shoulder and upper back .
while using a razor-edged knife to cut wiper material on a conveyor , employee cut his left leg just above knee . laceration approx one half inch long , need two sutures .
employee was cleaning blocks out of the crusher . a block fell on his finger , causing a laceration and fracture to his left index finger
employee was walking on a loader catwalk . employee ducked to go under a side mirror and struck head on the mirror bracket . a bolt on the bracket hit just under the hard hat brim . employee's head split open from the blow , starting at the forehead and ending at the middle of the top of employee's head .
a rock measuring 4 ' x 7 ' x 1 '' -4 '' fell striking employee on his right foot . employee was transported to raleigh general hospital and was diagnosed with a fractured big toe . employee was scheduled for out patient surgery but instead was admitted on 9-23-11 for surgery to correct his fractured toe .
employee states that while tightening bolts on pipe flange , he felt a pain in groin area .
employee was helping unload a new vertical air compressor that had just been delivered . the compressor had been placed in a loader bucket from the delivery truck and was being unloaded into the shop . he strained his back while trying to get the compressor out of the loader bucket .
injured was building a crib on top of an overcast at 34 block 1 north . when he went to pick a crib block off the ground to install it another crib block was thrown up on top of the overcast pinching his right ring finger between the cribs resulting in a commutated compound fracture of the distal phalange . no issue with personal protective equipment , mining methods , machinery , training or compliance .
employee was trying to remove a pinner steel from the roof . as he jerked on the steel it finally came out . when the steel came out of the hole it bounced off the pot and hit the employee in the forehead   causing a laceration .
employee was helping maintenance pull cages out of the cloth bags that are a part of our dust collector system . he was pulling on this particular cage , when the cage became stuck . employee slid a screw driver inside the top of the cage to give himself some leverage . employee was pulling down with his legs . heard a pop and sharp pain to his lower right abdomen .
employee was bagging material when he got over heated he started vomiting and having stomach cramps . it was hot and humid and employee did not drink enough water . also , shortness of breath
the employee was performing the `` walk-around '' inspection of his haul truck prior to the beginning of the shift . he stepped into the parking ditch , stumbled and fell into the left rear tires of the truck   , straining his back . he complained later of soreness in his chest . he was seen in the emergency room on 10-29-01 for evaluation and treatment .
while traveling the return entry , a mine examiner found a reportable roof fall in e-1 headgate , entry 3 , cross-cut 41 to 42. the fall was approximately 6 feet high , 20 feet wide , and 25 feet long .
employee had used a cable pulley to lift screens from the ground to the screen deck . he was attempting to remove the pulley from the chain that was holding it . as he lifted the pulley to unhook the chain , the pulley slipped and the chain whipped around and struck his finger .
employee was changing a flat tire on a shuttle car . he was balancing the good tire when it got away from him and started to fall . he tried to catch it from falling to the ground and strained his back . employee worked until the 14th of february .
company employee ( not mine employee ) slipped while exiting excavator and cut right palm on a piece of metal bracing concrete barriers for pond employee was removing silt from .
the employee was trying to get slack on feeder cable by pulling it , when pain occurred between shoulder blades on right side .
cross-cut 3-4 at 5+37 at intersection in number 3 started working approximately 9:00 am . employee called to inform me and said that they were cribbing and timbering . on the way in i contacted the outside and by 9:30 am i was informed that the above area had caved in on the ld box .
employee was stepping down off a piece of equipment and slipped on the bottom step straining his knee . he was placed in immobilization device for three of his scheduled days off . he was released to full duty at that time . he returned to work on his next regular schedule shift not requiring the brace .
on 4/30/2013 employee riding in mantrip strained neck when mantrip struck parked mantrip . employee became restricted duty on 7/23/2013 due to this injury .
truck   a   was dumping his load when truck   b   backed in beside him . truck a's tailgate froze shut and his load did not come out , he pulled forward , the trailer rocked and then the bottom jack pin broke and the trailer fell over onto truck b's drivers side . the trailer trapped injured's foot onto the floor board .
roof fall just outby spad number   448 in number   4 entry . fall is 20' x 20 ' approximately 4.5 ' to 5 ' high . located in a neutral entry approximately 50 cross-cuts outby the face in a previous fall area .
while the employee was moving cable from the roadway , he jumped out of the way of the shuttle car and hit the rib of the mine causing a pulled neck muscle .
team member received a papercut to their right index finger on 7-5-18. washed the cut out with soap and water and put latex glove over it . 7-12-18 team member went to doctor for antibiotics for infection to the papercut . 7-17-18 employee was taken to hospital for care and to prevent septic shock .
employee stated employee was walking next to belt line when foot became stuck in the mud resulting in a twisting motion to back causing severe pain . employee was transported outside on backboard to waiting ambulance . employee was taken to hospital and was given time off until 9/10/18 .
injured was barring on a chunk in an ore chute when he felt a sharp pain in his neck and right shoulder .
changing a return roller . the employees thought that the brackets that hold the roller in place were on top of the frame of the conveyor but were not , they were on the bottom . one employee let his side loose first , letting the roller free to swing into the other employees finger , smashing it into the frame .
welding pipe spool in jack stands . while rolling pipe it climbed out of jack stand and was falling. employee grabbed pipe as it fell and caught his left ring finger between 2 pieces of steel , cutting it .
employee states she was going down the stairs from scalehouse and slipped down the stairs hit rear end , right knee and right elbow
employee was removing an end dump tire when he started having right shoulder pain . he did not see a doctor at that time . employee stated that over the last several months he has been experiencing pain in his shoulder . on april 24 , 03 he was diagnosed with tendonitis , placed on restricted duty .
while operating 50 ton off road truck he started experiencing pain in right side and felt numb in the same area . he reported on 9/26 after seeing doctor on 9/19 and out of work since . he indicated   current work conditions contributed to pain . in doctor's report he did not indicate this as a work-related injury . delay in reporting was due to the doctor's findings .
a methane ignition occurred on the 001 section when upon finishing the cleanup run in the number 4 entry the bits came in contact with the mine roof methane was ignited for approximately 5-9 seconds .
while moving ductwork from its previously stored position due to windy conditions the ductwork slipped out of the employees hands and struck him in the left upper thigh causing a laceration to his leg . there was a laceration approximately six inches in length with about two inches of the laceration being deep .
north 7 , 77 block , 4 entry mobile mining unit 003-0 , 4-way support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , screen , pans , 12 ' cable truss and 12 ' cable bolts . 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 10 ' high fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall clean-up plan developed and posted at fall site
employee was walking down the intake entry and stepped into a hole and tripped , employee caught himself with his right leg and this caused him to twist his knee that resulted in a spain .
employee was walking down the stairs the id fan tripped . employee went to get a rod and noticed one of the port doors was  way open when id fan started back up , the door blew open , along with hot cement dust that blew out of the port door . employee was wearing safety glasses and face shield but some dust still got in eyes . treated for corneal abrasion .
employee strained his back when lifting on the miner cable during a power move . he continued working his regular job until 3/18/08 , his first day missed .
employee was using a porta power ram weighing approximately   35 lb to press a bearing on a hard bar for a tractor . he was holding up the ram while another employee was running the air pad . he states he was in a twisted position creating a strain and felt a tingling in his back . he works a 4 on 4 off schedule and didn't report to management until 7/15/02
injured was lifting number 11 miner cable when he feltpain in middle back .
employee felt burning sensation to bottom of ( left ) foot while working on the press floor at about 2:30 pm employee checked boot and sock , but did not notice anything . when employee got home he noticed a hole and black area ( dime size ) to ( left ) foot heel . employee found 2 staples imbedded in bottom of boot , causing prongs to poke the bottom of his foot . employee was placed on restricted duty on 02/04/2008 .
the crew was inspecting an 8 '' t pipe . they released the bottom and side sections of the pipe , as they started to loosen up the top section , they started to release the come along . they rested the pipe on the hand rail , then removed the come along , pipe was too heavy for employee and he lost control of it causing it to fall and smash employee's finger against the hand rail .
employee was checking coal chute raised door inspection plate and metal door fell on left arm . he said the door slipped out of his hand , employee worked until 7-14-00 and said his arm was sore went to doctor sa id it had got infected . scratch got infected had to be treated for infection .
employee had the hood of the 400d haul truck open checking transmission fluid . another employee approached to see what employee was doing . employee then squatted down on the side of the truck's left front fender , as employee was squatting down employee fell off the truck and landed on head/shoulder .
employee was taking belt lapper off belt and belt popped up striking him on the forehead .
employee was receiving self-contained self-rescuer expectations training using artificial smoke . injured stated that while he was exiting the room he tripped on a chair causing pain in his lower back . medical records have indicated that this is degenerative disc disease .
employee was washing down a concrete aisleway,   started to walk down the incline , when he slipped and fell .
employee was walking down a slope to place a small cotton rope over the berm . as he walking down the berm , he slipped on a rock and stumbled . he was able to catch himself and did not fall but as the day progressed , he started to feel pain in his left heel .
employee reported for work on sat june 7 , 2003 complaining of back pain . he worked friday , the 6th and did not have back pain . he does not know of a specific event that caused back pain , he does handle   50 lb of explosives . issued a prescription drug on june 10th making this case recordable .
employee possibly had a stroke while working . was sitting in cab of highwall miner when another employee noticed slurred speech .
incident first reported only as a first aid situation . employee tripped over a scraper/rake handle and hit his leg against rake part causing a bruise and two small cuts to lower left shin . on 4-24-0 0 employee requested to see physician and was subsequently put on modified duty .
employee reported he was bolting a flange using an impact wrench . wrench slipped off of nut and employee injured his back .
removing forms on 26205 drag . burning out metal form in a confined area under breaker , employee moved to get in position to make next cut . his right elbow hit breaker , he flinched and reaction caused   torch to pass over left wrist .
employee was holding an electronic sensor in place with his right hand while pulling a drive belt on another part of the machine with his left hand . his right hand caught in between two surfaces and he received a laceration on the back of his hand . he received 6 stitches to close the laceration and there was no impairment resulting
developed carpal tunnel and cubital tunnel syndrome surgery was performed 1/5/01 this was determined to be work related
pulling chocker cable to drill , ground was muddy , employee slipped . he kept on working , did not report being hurt , ran dozer rest of day . did not call in or report for work 10-23 , 10-24-06. called at 3:45 pm on 10-24-06 and said he had hurt his back .
employee was working around a belt drive , another employee was striking a bolt with a hammer , when injured felt pain in his left knee . employee went to emergency room where a piece of metal was removed .
driller and victim were pulling drill steel from the carousel . while guiding a piece of steel employee slipped in the mud covering the shot area . he let go of the steel and grabbed the drilling table   to steady himself . the steel then swung back and hit his hand , breaking his middle and index fingers on his right hand .
employee has been working in the waste heat dept since 9/20/2005 . he alleges that the task of unplugging the boilers has been repetitive motion and has caused discomfort in his hands and wrists . have been awaiting diagnosis from company doctor report filed when that became available .
an unintentional roof fall occurred along 1 westtrac haulage at 53 1/2 wall . the fall measured ~16' wide x 20' long x 6' high . no injuries or equipment damaged . this area had beams and false roof installed   . old fall area .
while working on a dart ch-160 trailer , employee was lowering the axle on jacks and extensions and the axle began to roll off of the jacks and landed on employee's left foot and crushed it .
during a fireboss run a roof fall was identified in the number 8 neutral entry inby spad # 6997. the fall was approximately   50 ' long x 20 ' wide x 4'-5 ' high. the area was supported by 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts . the area was mined approximately 5/06 . cribs have been set and the area dangered off .
employee was climbing ladder to drill when slipped and fell backwards off ladder .
employee was removing tube assembly from screen with a come-along . tube caught on floor , causing it to jump , striking him in the arm .
the employee was operating an overburden drill , when for some unknown reason the drill rig toppled over onto its left side . the employee fell from the cab against the drill steels . he received a cut above his eye and scrapes to his right side . the outriggers were extended and the rig was leveled before the boom was raised .
rock fall in the face area of the number   5 entry which entrapped the gaylis 300 roof bolter approximately 80 ' in by spad 4958 on the 001 unit . the machine will not be recovered . fall was approximately 5 ' high 40 ' long 20 ' wide .
member was unloading 4 wide by 8 long pallets made out of 2 by 6s with 4 runners on the bottom off of a flat car into a scoop bucket . while doing so he experienced sharp pain in his lower back causing him to go to his knees with the pain . he took himself to summersville medical center emergency room for treatment .
employee was cutting loose a steel plate at the abc reclaim hopper with a torch . as employee was cutting the plate loose , the plate became unstable and fell on the employee's left leg . the employee was performing maintenance on the hopper at the time of the incident .
around 11am 1 ladder rung was found to be broken in the number 3 mancage . the ladder is used to exit the cage in case of emergency . the decision was made to evacuate the mine until the ladder could be repaired . the ladder was repaired by 12pm thus cancelling the evacuation .
the slope car was inoperable from 1:35 am until 9:10 am since it was off track with a truck hauling the longwall tail drive .
teen age kids were traveling   on bolander road . went off the right side of road then off the left side of road and hit parked railroad cars sitting on the side track .
date reported 12/12/03 , employee worked outside on 12/05/03 , maintenance - grinding - welding - etc . very cold day . employee then got into the loader about 4 pm and started to warm up . he felt burning in his eyes . did not report the issue . saturday 12/6/03 he went to his doctor and stated that his eye was irritated and the doctor provided him with ointment . eye still hurt , went back and they extracted a piece metal
employee strained himself lifting lid on toolbox . a hernia developed and required medical care . employee began missing work 2/5/07 .
employee was operating a loader when a rock came off the highwall , went through the windshield striking the operator's forearm and left leg . stitches were required in his leg .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on 1st northeast mains inby spad number 3036 in old neutral entry . fall measured 20' long , 18' wide , 5' high . this fall is 60 ' inby spad number 3036 .
employee was climbing up the number 1 kiln hood ladder to clean hood psi top . while at the 4th rung from the bottom he hit his left knee causing him to fall backward from the ladder landing on the floor on   his right foot , he then felt pain in his right hip .
galena hoist man called the hoist would not reset . he pushed the emergency stop button , left the hoist cab to use the restroom . when he got back he hit the reset and nothing happened . the electricians arrived and check breakers and fuses . found 2 fuses on the control power box blown . no reason why they blown but replaced fuses and hoist fired back up .
employee was operating a roof bolter drilling with sectional augers . as he put the auger sections together they were not properly aligned . when the pressure was applied to the boom the augers snapped   together bending and hitting thumb . this bent his thumb back causing a fracture
employee was installing an air slide in the packing house . he passed from the stair to the vibrator's structure to reach the chain of the hoist . the vibrator's structure was energized due to a broken ground wire located inside a metal enclosure . employee received an electrical shock when he touched part of the metal structure . the ground was fixed but few wires were broken
employee states : slipped and jerked neck , stiff
while loading canoe liners 20-30 lbs from the ground to the flat bed pu number 264 employee felt a twinge in his back
employee working near edge of highwall fell 90 feet after slipping or stepping in wrong direction .
worker was moving a piece of stone when it flipped and he strained his back .
he unplugged the batteries on the personnel car number 2 before turning the charger off in which it , the plug in , caused a spark . gas from a 6 volt battery arched blowing dirt and debris in his left eye   .
employee was in process moving a 18 '' valve on bow of deck when he tripped over valve he previously moved to that spot , as employee tripped the valve he was moving fell onto his upper right thigh , employee suffered contusions to his right thigh , knee and buttocks , employee has been placed on restricted duty .
at the bunker tail shaft area , mechanics were getting ready to take slack out of   b   chain to pull slack when a weld that held the tension arm in place broke . the released tension arm came up through the steps where the victim was standing causing severe laceration to femoral artery in his groin area .
the kuhntown elevator stopped 90-100 ' below the top landing . breaker was reset and ran in inspection mode to get 16 employees on elevator off . contact nips were replaced and elevator tested several times and cleared for normal operations by mine safety and health administration .
a rock fall occurred at approximately 11:43 am in the belt entry at cross-cut 30 on the main north . the fall was in the bottom area and was 40 x 20 x 8. the fall will be cleaned up . the plus is 21 + 36. the area was supported with 8 ft double lock bolts .
employee was pulling on a wrench when he felt something pop in the little finger of his right hand . he finished his shift and went to the emergency room the next day where he was diagnosed with a broken   finger .
employee bent down to sort caps and lost footing and struck right knee on the loader bucket . employee did not report the incident until the 13th and went to see a doctor on the 14th and restrictions were given turning bruised knee into a lost time accident .
a fall of roof above the anchorage of the 4 ft resin roof bolts occurred in the number 5 intake entry at 30 cross-cut along the number 2 belt . the fall was approximately 20' long x 20' wide x 6' thick . no one was injured during this event . the primary escapeway was blocked and all persons were evacuated outby the location until another primary escapeway could be established . the area was dangered and approaches cribbed .
employee had hung a come-along from a shield to lift a relay bar . when employee started taking slack out of the chain , employee looked up and the come-along fell and hit employee in the mouth causing a chipped tooth . employee did not miss any work .
employee was trouble shooting in an electrical panel box with a volt/amp meter probe . the probe may have come in contact with a hot wire and ground wire at the same time , causing sparks and flashes .
operator operating crane , lowered crane with load of rods causing injury to finger of fellow employee .
employee strained mid-back while carrying metal bar up the stairs .
employee was replacing b-1 screen panel when the panel became wedged in bottom deck . employee jerked on screen , straining his back , lower back . employee continued working for the following 2 weeks . on 7/25/04 employee went to the hospital - pain had increased to the point of unbearable . x-rays were taken : showed bulging disc in l-3 . first day missed was 7/26/04 .
employee was hooking highline into mouse house , 4th piece of cable during a lighting storm ; lightening struck close by coming through cable causing cable to energize and shock him .
helping truck driver pull 35 ' section of tubing from flatbed onto forks of forklift . tubing became unbalanced and started to teeter . employee used shoulder to push tubing back on truck . he heard a pop and felt pain and numbness in left arm and hand . final medical documentation for determination as to whether this was mine safety and health administration recordable wasn't received until 9/15/08 .
employee was walking on rock pile to get some tools and twisted ankle on a rock , causing injury to left ankle . ( report not filed timely due to late receipt of claim ) .
while kneeling down on both knees to weld two plates of steel together , employee felt a sharp pain in his left knee . this incident is being reported september 7 , 2011 which is within 10 days of seeking medical attention .
while pressure washing truck employee tripped over hose and fell reached out to break fall with left hand and grabbed or touched hot muffler on pressure washer
employee parked loader on area of very uneven ground after heavy rains . when dismounting from loader he placed left foot on the ground , slid on slippery ground and twisted foot at the same time .
employee was using a 5 ' long bar to lock a cam on a rail car door when employee lost footing and fell forward catching self with employee's hands on the ground . the rock bar fell to the tracks and leveraged the end up striking employee on the chin . employee received a 2 '' laceration requiring 5 stitches to close .
employee was opening a door underground so a tractor could go through . the tractor operator struck the door and the employee's hand was smashed between the door and the rib . the employee went to the doctor , x-rays were negative and no stitches were required . employee was placed on restricted duty 5/13/05 .
cutting belt with utility knife blade broke cut right hand had to have 3 stitches .
loader tire on the left front of 992 cat loader ran over rock and puncture tire and the air from tire blew on the ground causing loose material on the ground to blow about 40 ' and hit the face and arm of the driver in the 769 rock truck .
inability of roof support to control strata , fall occurred on me   travelway at approx 3:00 am . fall is approx 20' long , 16' wide , and 7' high above coal seam . this at the number 148 cross-cut intersection .
employee was removing sludge/ water pump from basement of unloading station . he picked the pump up to place it on a 2 wheel cart . the pump weighed approximately 200 lbs . in the process of lifting the pump , he strained his upper left arm and shoulder . he was sent for a medical evaluation , and started physical therapy to rehabilitate his shoulder .
employee stated that employee had pulled onto the feeder to dump the shuttle car and stepped out of the buggy to turn seat around without setting the park brake on the center drive shuttle car . the car rolled back and caught lower right leg ( calf ) between the shuttle car and the mine rib .
cleaning surface of rotary valve with wire wheel grinder when employee got metal particles in both eyes .
east mains number 16 block number 10 heading 4-way intersection 7 ft high x 20 ft long x 20 ft wide . type of support . 6 ft resin bolts , 6 '' x 16 '' plates . roof mats area dangered off , additional supports set around fall .
while lifting a pipe with two other employees , employee tripped and struck left knee on the ground . did not qualify as mine safety and health administration reportable until 9/23/05 when employee was placed on light duty .
in order to save time and effort employee crossed a pipe line . he did not have enough step to clear and cross safety , and tripped and fell . he shoulder have walked around the line until a crossing was in place . employee placed on restricted duty on 6-2-04 .
employee was loading belt structure at the longwall headgate area into a scoop car , smashed finger between 2 pieces of belt structure . there was no damage or impairment to the mining operation or the   equipment . the injury did not involve compliance , job skills , proficiency , training or attitude . protective items ( gloves ) were not worn , protective devices were not a factor .
ensley central service employee 01-03226 was drilling holes in steel floor at switch house at calera quarry 01-00050 ; drill caught and twisted left and right wrists . employee was applying a large amount of force onto a drill without enough leverage to keep drill under control .
( 3 employees were injured in this accident . ) employee was assisting in the installation of a replacement deck on shaker when the deck frame suddenly slid into place , striking employee in the pelvic area ( surgical repair required ) .
injured worker was standing on the left side of the trailer . the driver checked the side mirror , he saw injured worker begin to walk away from the trailer . the driver then noticed a pickup truck approaching on the right side . the driver looked to see that the pickup was not pulling in front of him . he then began to pull forward . while pulling forward he rechecked his mirrors and saw injured worker falling to the ground . the driver stopped the truck .
employee's right knee was injured july 99 ; after returning to work in january 2000 he has complained that his knee hurt ; 5/1/00 he was scheduled with treating physician for evaluation .
releasing brake wheel by hand on railroad car when employee felt pain in right arm/shoulder . injury occurred on 11/14/2017 and employee continued to work until 2/22/2018 when employee missed 3 days . ( february 26 , 27 , and 28 , 2018 ) and returned on 3/1/2018 on modified duty with restrictions . at this time incident became reportable .
a fork struck employee on the inside of his left ankle causing a contusion .
employee was using a pipe wrench to loosen a pipe fitting . as he pushed down on the wrench with his right arm he felt a pop in his rib cage on the right side .
employee was walking down from parking lot when he slipped and fell on ice . employee reported to his supervisor and was checked by emergency response team members . employee was transported to the clinic . employee was placed on restrictions and released back to work .
while loading belt structure into mantrip he mashed his left little finger between two rollers requiring 7 sutures
a roof fall was discovered in the number 3 main 2500 ' outby the section in a parallel entry . fall location is number 3 main number 5 cross-cut number 10 entry . no impairment or damage to persons , equipment or systems .
employee was helping clean line away for hole being drilled for infusion into pillars . reached down and wire connecting steel to chuck cut wrist . 7 stitches to close wound .
employee sprained left ankle as he was moving a 55 gallon drum with a dolley . he placed his right foot on wheel axle and positioned left foot back to get leverage . started to pull on dolley handles and then rolled his left ankle . on 06/02/2010 , employee placed on restricted duty .
while carving out a notch in wood for a roof rafter , the knife slipped from employee's right   hand striking the left middle finger .
employee was loading glue on bolter when employee hip popped out of place and back into place pinching nerve . employee was released to full duty following medical examination on 4.10.18. a follow up appointment on 5.1.18 resulted in employee placed on restricted duty at that time .
employee ( truck driver ) climbing into truck when door handle dislodged from door and left knee struck rung of ladder . employee did not inform us he needed medical attention we found out after he went to medical help on about 8-26-03 when bills arrived at office .
while installing mill screen plates , employee was struck in the face/mouth with sledge hammer .
employee was cleaning materials from a piece of equipment , when employee pulled her back . employee filled out a first aid report . on the following tuesday 9/16/03 , employee went to doctor the doctor told her to stay off work for 1 day 9/17/03 . employee returned to work 9/18/03 .
employee was operating the number 4 shuttle car . he was pulling off the feeder , one break inby the power center at spad # 8316. employee hit a pothole causing him to bounce up off his seat . when he came back down   his tailbone struck the frame of the seat . employee was diagnosed with a contusion to the tailbone .
employee fell while hooking cable to loader bucket . he suffered a contusion to the right arm and head .
operator backed the 8000 gallon water tuck 320 yards down a 10 % road and when he attempted to stop , the brakes failed . he steered the truck into the highwall to avoid hitting a 100 ton haul truck or 992 loader , which caused the loaded water truck to roll over . the driver did not sustain any injuries . damage occurred to the cab of the water truck .
employee sustained a lower back strain and was placed on restrictions . she was removing a loading spout from a rail car when she felt a pop and pull in her lower back .
employee was removing the brake drum off left rear axle of grease truck when it fouled mashing left index finger .
employee was lowering lid of bulk truck when he noticed the seal was about to fall into the truck . he released the lid to grab the seal and the lid continued to fall , crushing his finger .
a non-injury roof fall occurred on 10 west lw tailgate between the can crib and the last shield the fall measured 5 ' high , 5 ' wide and for a distance of 5 feet the tailgate travel way was blocked and blockage plan implemented .
employee was setting a slurry pump at number 4 take-up when employee's hand slipped . the pump hit his left hand and 2 middle fingers .
employee was getting into loader slipped on sill falling into cab striking head and right shoulder on door frame .
employee was found to have standard threshold shift during annual hearing test
employee was packing up his service truck when the rear hatch caught a gust of wind . the gust of wind caused the lid of the service truck to fall down onto employee head causing a laceration .
while walking down a bank of pit material employee slipped and struck his hand right on a sharp rock causing a small laceration to his little finger .
an unintentional roof fall was found on the 002 section at intersection spad # 327. the roof fall occurred in the number 1 intersection on panel 1a and measured about 8 ' in height and approximately   20 ' wide .
employee was moving a piece of scrap metal by hands to get to the boom truck that was needed in the pit . while moving the metal , it cut his third finger on his left hand causing him to go to the hospital   for 2 stitches .
while employee was helping a mechanic replace a broken track pin on an excavator , the mechanic was driving the pin into the track with a large hammer when a hammer from the pin broke loose and struck   him in the left side of the head around the temple area .
employee was cutting a conveyor belt with a utility knife and the knife slipped and cut left arm . employee went to a physician and they glued the laceration closed .
employee was using a piece of angle iron instead of a hammer to secure the lid of a 55 gallon drum . he struck his right   small finger with the angle iron . this resulted in a fracture to the tip of the finger and damage to the nail .
employee slipped and fell while going through an entry door in the maintenance shop . he bruised his right knee and on the evening of 11-27-01 he was admitted to hospital where he had to have medical   procedures to remove infection that had set up . this employee is diabetic .
employee was changing wires in breaker panel for the simplicity screen when electrical wire came in contact with another wire or metal box creating a ball of fire . heat from ball of fire caused burns .
employee was descending stairs and slipped on tread due to rain and muddy shoes .
a roof fall occurred in the 3n3 , number 45 cross-cut , between number 8 and number 9 entries . the fall measured approximately 25 ' long , 18 ' wide and 6 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 ' fully grouted tension rebar bolts .
k-501 and k-502 belts kicked out . employee went to investigate . at the feed floor smoke was coming out of stone chute . i-d fan was increased , removing smoke . later employee complained of chest pains . as a precaution he was immediately transported for medical treatment due to his asthmatic condition . no others needed treatment . no lost time .
employee stated he was at slickline on sm roadway to get load of gravel . as he turned to walk away after using telephone the bottom part of rib rolled out and hit foot .
employee reported alleged carpal tunnel syndrome on 12-19-06. he was seen by specialist on 2/14/07 that determined he needed surgery . he had surgery for the right hand on 4/12/07 and will have the left hand done on 4/26/07 .
stated : employee was coming through mandoor by mn belt toward slope bottom . one large equipment airlock door , toward the slope bottom , was open . as she stepped through , someone opened the mandoor on the other large equipment airlock door . she lost her grip on the door and it mashed her arm between the door and the frame . she is still off work and is a lost time incident .
employee was attempting to move a light plant . employee fingers were between the hitch and truck when the jack failed the trailer fell pinching employee fingers .
while moving a section of 6 '' aluminum water line , the pipe rolled and the tip of his left index finger got caught between the pipe and a section of belt structure . the accident happened because the employee had failed to secure the pipe . the employee had been properly trained and did not violate any rules or regulations . the employee has a good safety attitude .
employee was diagnosed with carpal tunnel of both wrists and will have surgery on 11/28/01 .
the employee was changing drill bits . employee was hitting the lock ring of the drill bit with a hammer . a piece of metal came off the hammer head and struck the employee in the back of right leg . the metal penetrated the skin . this required medical attention to remove the metal .
according to employee he said he was lifting a piece of steel used to fabricate a chute on the 2 deck screen when he twisted and felt a sharp pain to his back ( ) lower ) . he reported a sore back as the   reason he was going home to the scale person , who relayed his leaving to this office .
employee had just pulled cable up barge . cable was tight under cleat . cable popped out from under cleat . hitting him in the right upper mid leg .
unintentional roof fall ( 20 ' inby spad number 384 ) from 6' to 9 ' 18' wide 50' long
employee and one coworker were attempting to change the loader attachment from bucket to forks . bucket got stuck , so employee started hitting it with a hammer . bucket fell on both employee's feet .
employee notified on supervisor on 04/16/15 of wrist pain that had increased over time . electromyography studies done on 04/27/15 positive for carpal tunnel in the left wrist , and the employee referred to an orthopedic surgeon . appointment with orthopedic surgeon set for 05/06/15 . employee had carpal tunnel surgery on 5/7/15 . he was unable to work following the surgery until 6/9/15 .
employee was stepping around other employee when he lost his balance , misplaced his left foot and fell to the floor . in falling to the floor , employee grabbed the other employee , bringing him to floor with him . misplaced foot was broken .
shoveling belt and felt pain in left shoulder , back , and left hip . received report of injury late .
employee was repairing a tooth face which had broken off of a bucket of a 4600 manitowoc dragline , while making an adjustment on his welder he tripped on a rock and fell down and landed on the rock with his left knee .
an unplanned roof fall occurred just after finishing the number 5 lift of a five 5 cut partial pillar recovery plan . as the continuous miner was being trammed from the lift the roof inby cross-cut set down onto ripper fouling machine . fall was located one cross-cut inby spad 1446 of the 5 entry measuring approximately   20 ' wide , length and height could not be determined .
employee was welding overhead . after he finished he was in the process of removing his welding hood and putting his hard hat on when some debris had entered his right eye .
employee was walking up the steps inside the office when he twisted his foot causing a fracture to a bone in his right foot .
employee was instructed to install `` snow poles '' at road edges using slide hammer or jackhammer . employee elected to drive post into ground using loader bucket . the post slipped and loader bucket struck   employee's left leg causing torn flesh .
unintentional roof fall in the 5th east panel occurred at cross-cut located at 1380 ft survey station between entries 3 and 4. the fallen material measured 20 x 13 x 6 feet . the support method used was 6 ft tension rebar roof bolts .
employee was exiting the mechanic truck bed , when his foot slipped , causing him to strike his mouth on a hydraulic hose .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by the mine examiner performing weekly examinations in the 1st south , number 4 entry , between cross cuts 6 and 7. the fall is approximately 18 ' wide x 60 ' long x 6.5 ' high. the fall is in an inactive area of the mine .
employee is a locomotive brakeman and was walking along railroad tracks to switch tracks . stepped on patch of ice and fell to knees . investigating use of liquid deicers near switches . salt doesn't work well .
7 mains 2 , 7 entry , 34 block , mobile mining unit 002. support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , screen . 14 ft wide x 8 ft long x 6 ft high fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall and clean up plan developed and posted at fall site .
employee was getting tools out of the tool box on his mechanics truck when he hit his elbow on the tool box
training exercise - moving cable on boom . employee climbed 6 ' ladder to change cable on boom sheave . fell off ladder while descending ; hit front of head on ladder ( or ? ) , landed on back on ground . unresponsive , but awake when ambulance arrived . refused treatment . went to emergency room next day ; admitted ( 3 days ) . prior back problems aggravated by fall .
he was roof bolting , installing 4 ' fully grouted roof bolts ; he was lifting a roof bolt to install it into a drilled hole when he felt pain in his left shoulder . he did not seek medical attention   until 5/2/00 . scheduled for surgery 8/9/00
brian lester , mine foreman was traveling down roadway number 5 entry and spotted a fall in number 6 entry , 1 break inby spad # 189. brian made sure that there were no other hazards and that all men were accounted for ... both federal and state offices were contacted at approximately 1:40 am -- the fall was 20 x 20 by 5 ft thick . the fall was cribbed at the intersection
employee had been working on machine when he felt pain in right forearm . pain has progressed and treatment was sought one week later .
employee was working with other crew members taking a motor with structure to another location when they derailed the motor . they were working to jack the motor up to get it back on rail when he stepped off of the flat car . he states his knee `` popped '' .
injured was working outside north door of the new welding shop . while hitting a lip shroud for a shovel bucket with a 8 lb . hammer , a small sliver of metal came off the hammer and hit injured in his left thigh become lodge in his thigh .
employee alleges a back strain from attempting to install a pump . he continued to work until 7-10-02 when he began to miss work . the mine is now closed as of 7-15-02 .
a roof fall occurred in the 1 south , number 8 entry in one-third the intersection of cross-cut number 36 and extending in the pillarline 6 ft . towards cross-cut # 37. the fall measured approximately 12 ft . x 19 ft . x 6 ft - 9 ft . six foot tension rebar bolts and 9 foot mega bolts were used to support the area . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall .
employee was pulling a vacuum hose when it got stuck between crossbeams . he yanked the hose which `` slingshotted '' towards him striking and chipping his front tooth .
employee was mounting a dozer and felt a pulling and pain in his left lower back . he continued to work and the pain became steadily worse , radiating down the left leg . he was transported to emergency room with a diagnosis   of acute low back strain with left radicular pain .
the employee was working the loadout sampler skirt boards . he had dropped one side and had loosened all the bolts on the other side , except for one . he had a socket and racket on the last bolt , when it broke . his right hand was propelled backwards and struck another bolt , puncturing his hand . he received 5 stitches .
the injured and his partner were under the 109 locomotive truck installing bearings . there was a lack of communication between the two workers which caused one of the bearings to fall and strike   the injured in the forehead . the bearing weighed 35 lbs and caused a cut to the injured's forehead .
employee alleges while loading rock into a feeder he dumped bucket and shifted into reverse , when load shifted it jarred him , hurting his neck . follow up testing confirmed injury .
rider seam pulled bolts out of main roof because bolt failed to anchor to main roof . occurred in return on right side of section at spad number 528 .
employee was working on s3 manlift , when he stepped on the latch to unlock the man basket , it fell causing employee to lose , his balance , he was able to stay on the basket for a short distance , but then fell   about 10 feet to the ground landing on his shoulder and head , transported to challis clinic for exam and stitches .
employee was running the work boat at the dredge when the dredge anchor cable broke . he was pulling approximately 300 ' long cable onto the deck of the work boat . he pulled both shoulders . he declined   to go to the doctor . on 12/30/02 he was working on the belts at the plant and pulled his shoulders again . his arms and hand started getting numb so he was sent to the doctor 5/23/03 .
employee was assisting with the installation of a top training roller on the surface stacker belt when he experienced pain in his lower back . this injury occurred 12/17/04 , but he did not start to lose time until the end of 12/04 .
employee was pulling bolter cable while another employee was tramming bolter out of room 2l in panel sb01 . he was pulling cable back with hot stick and turned didn't see where he was going at th is time . the reel started taking up the slack , jerking the hot stick out of his hands .
while welding , employee felt something in eye . at time felt it was some dirt but due to continued discomfort had eye treated following day and a piece of metal was found and removed .
employee was assisting in the installation of steel arch supports , using simplex jack to help level the legs . the arch support was in a bind and a bolt in a tierod was loosed when the support was free it shifted and struck the employee on the right arm .
employee was lowering a six inch vacuum hose that contained kiln feed rock when he felt his shoulder pop . too much weight in hose .
two employees were lifting a stack of wooden planks ; when injured turned he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee was descending an overcast ramp when employee slipped and fell to the ground injuring right leg . employee was diagnosed with a fractured tibia in right leg .
mechanic was working on a ballformer . while one mechanic was lying on the ground making adjustments to the roller bearing bolts , the injured mechanic was using a track bar to leverage the support roller bearing into the proper position . the track bar slipped off the roller bearing striking the mechanic on the ground just above his right eye causing a laceration .
at the time of the incident employee was exiting a service truck . as he stepped down on to the rough ground his right foot buckled under his weight .
we were using a scoop , wire rope and a pull block to pull conveyer belt together when a chain holding the pull block broke letting the wire rope loose . the wire rope pinned employee against rib and bruised him .
operator was using the excavator to pull a rock back onto the bench from the outslope . a section of the rock broke off causing the excavator to jerk backwards . this caused the operator's neck to have pain due to the whiplash effect .
the mine experienced a roof fall in the north mains return , number 1 entry , at 10 block . the fall occurred in the intersection and the dimensions were 18 ft . by 18 ft . the fall was found by a supervisor and no injuries occurred from this incident .
mechanic was replacing filters in the rotoclone on the m3 drill . one filter had come apart and was caught on another filter and would not drop out . the mechanic took the nut off the second filter   and both filters dropped out and struck him on the right hand causing a cut on his little finger .
employee was reconnecting the infeed pipe on s-112 screener pulling pipe to clamp it off. pipe got hung on screener lid . pipe came loose suddenly. employee's hand was mashed between the top and bottom parts of the slide gate flange . mashed left middle finger. required sutures .
while watering the roads underground , employee hit a rough part of the road and jarred his back .
they were running gravel to the surge and a shut plugged up . they were cleaning up the rock and gravel . employee twisted his back .
the employee alleges that he was in the process of straightening a roof bolt after it was placed into the hole , when the bolt twisted , causing the sprain to his lower back .
employee's bypassed safety devices on a raised cab , which created an unsafe act . additionally , the injured employee attempted a single man lift where a team lift is applicable .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 2 gas mine at spad number 1355 on the belt entry that measured 58 ' long x 19 ' wide x 14 ' high . no injuries reported . the area was developed on 2-1-09 .
employee was cleaning and inspecting the shop grease pump which had been leaking grease around the piston . he took the guards off to find the leak , when the piston grabbed the rag in his hand . when attempting to free the rag the piston caught his finger , lacerating a 2 '' long piece of skin .
employee was removing rock from lo-lo and his finger was struck cutting finger .
while employee was carrying stone a piece broke in half and fell onto foot .
ruptured disc or ruptured muscle in his back when lifting a used screen panel onto a forklift .
employee was working on top of a rail car when his safety harness lanyard got caught between his body and a gate . he lost his balance and tried to step onto an access platform . his right foot slipped   between the platform and the edge of the rail car . he fell and sustained a fracture of the right tibia and right fibula . employee is losing time .
employee was dismounting his drill , when his foot slipped and he hit his right knee on the step of the ladder ; he said he was ok ; later his knee began to swell , he went to doctor the next day ; 1st lost time for this accident was on 6/6/2000 .
employee was mounting motor , motor slipped and caught employees leg on the knee area , causing dislocating knee and bruising .
employee was in process of installing/replacing bearing on shaft of idler roller ( snub roller ) near discharge roller when chain broke which allowed belt roller to fall , pinning injured's hand between shaft and bearing housing .
employee was walking and slipped while carrying a part and when employee fell the part landed on right hand and cut it . employee was taken to the hospital and received 8 stitches
injured employee was attempting to park mantrip in a charging station . left front tire struck rib line , while attempting to back up from rib-steering wheel turned abruptly in opposite direction striking employee on ungloved hand .
injured is an employee of tnt drilling . he was attempting to use the restroom in the woods behind the pit . as he bent over , a copperhead snake bit him on the butt . he was taken to the emergency room . where a doctor determined he was not injected with venom . he returned to work that same afternoon .
drill operator was attempting to replace the deck wrench cylinder connecting pin and keeper ( cab side ) which connects the yolk of the cylinder to the deck wrench frame . the deck wrench cylinder   is hydraulic controlled . employee attempted to operate the cylinder control lever inside of cab door with his right hand while reaching to align the cylinder yolk with the deck wrench frame for cylinder
blocks that support the plant were rotten . plant was bouncing . even tho ' the shaker was off , the bouncing caused a rock to fall into running crusher . the jaw projected the rock out of the hopper and the rock hit employee 20 ' from the plant on the ground .
employee was doing normal cleanup with a shovel when the lower back pain began .
the enlow elevator was down for more than 30 minutes because of a broken door latch assembly . there was no entrapment .
while moving a piece of wood to cover a hole , employee got his finger caught between the wood and a drop box ( cut on right index finger ) .
an unplanned roof fall occurred 1 break inby spad number 42 in the number 7 entry . fall measured 40 ' x 18 ' x 6 ' . no injuries were reported . the area was developed on 5/19/08 .
as employee was lifting the miner cable he developed pain in his back . he is presently waiting for a mri .
employee was working to abate an electrical violation on a garage door located in the shop . he set up a 12 ' extension ladder to climb up and remove ceiling tiles . as he was descending , the ladder began to slide . employee fell approximately 6 ft to the ground . he was transported to the hospital where x-ray revealed a fractured left metatarsal .
a piece of coal fell over the rib screen , hitting the employee on the left knee , reinjured the knee he had hurt at home the week before
employee was taking twist out of winch cable when he got his hand caught in shive block , cutting four fingers off on left hand .
while cutting hand rail , injured crawled out to reach it because it got hung up on i beam . when the end of the rail broke off , injured twisted his wrist .
employee was walking between work locations , slipped on ice and strained his left knee
member was tightening a bolt on the side of a d-9 dozer , leaning over the side of the stabilizing bar when he felt pain in the upper right rib area . he was scheduled off work until 8-13-01 and that is the time the lost time began .
employee slipped and fell while walking around his bolt machine and caught his left small finger on the drill steel tray .
while walking on south side of cr-1 , employee tripped over a donut laying on the deck and almost fell through the hole in the platform where the v-belt board is to sit
east 3 , 44 block number 4 heading , 4-way mobile mining unit 007 , 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 12 ft high . type of support : cable bolts 8 '' x 8 '' plates . left resin 8 '' x 8 '' plates . roof mats wire screen acs jacks . fall dangered   off , additional roof support set around fall .
employee moved roof bolter outby face to rebolt in the section . horse back fell out causing fatal injury .
the employee mentioned was injured while making an adjustment to the fine side of the pioneer triple rolls . a threaded hydraulic fitting apparently damaged at previous time blew out of the hydraulic adjusting ram and the hose it was attached to hit employee in the leg and blew oil into his face and right eye .
employee had exited out of his truck to perform a post shift vehicle inspection . he stepped on the edge of pavement and gravel meet ; his ankle twisted . x-rays revealed a fracture of the left ankle . note : this accident was attempted to be submitted to mine safety and health administration on 03/11/2013 . there were some problems with the network and the accident report did not go through .
contractor vehicle electrical fire
employee bent over to handle a 5 '' ( diameter . ) bulk line . he felt low back pain when attempting to straighten up .
employee was installing a high voltage plug in the back of the section power center . employee was having trouble tightening the plug all the way and employee struck the high voltage plug wrench with a hammer to assist in tightening it . employee accidentally hit hand between the thumb and pointer finger . employee received two stitches .
5 right 5 south , putting in alpine miner , using chain to lift , using bar to align , chain broke and hit man's left middle and index fingers .
employee is retired from a shipping manager position . employee states this is an ongoing problem . filed a claim 8/3/09 . employee had a hearing evaluation on 5/2/2016 and states has a hearing loss . employee retired on 3/13/2016 .
roof fall , 2a belt number 5 entry spad # 1851. size of fall : length 20 ft , width 20 ft , height 5 ft .
no equipment running at the time , conditions good/setting spads before mining coal started .
employee strained back while pulling wires underneath a floor .
employee stated that he was opening a can of welding rods and cut his little finger on left hand .
employee was lifting a set of portable torches weighing 20 lbs . was twisting to put on tractor .
employee was cutting a wear plate in primary feeder . another employee was approximately   4 ' away using a 3 lb   hammer to drive bag under plate , when the swing hammer slipped from grip striking employee over his eye .
employee was jackhammering debris when the chisel point dropped through the grate and caused the jackhammer to jerk back .
employee slipped ( and fell ) on ice , causing lower back strain . received prescription medication and had reportedly missed 1 day of work before being off on rotation . subsequently learned treating physician's documentation revealed no work restrictions nor time loss . reclassify the injury as medical only , per discussion with vacaville mine safety and health administration rep .
employee developed stiff neck while driving a forklift .
while trying to set an anchor pin for the highwall miner , the pin shifted , pinning the miner's hand between the pin and a box on the miner .
the employee alleges that he was repairing electrical cables of the conveyor , having turned off the breakers , in order to fix them and wrap the cables with tape , when he turned on the breakers , he received   an electrical impact , and was thrown to the ground and got three burns on his left hand ( thumb , index and middle fingers . )
employee was removing a bag from the packer when the bag felt slightly stuck . he pulled harder and felt a pop/snap in his abdomen and then felt pain .
while traveling down road , drill steel started bouncing when employee tried to hold them in place he caught his finger between the drill steel smashing his right finger . employee was taken to emergency room and company doctor was diagnosed with a laceration and fracture to right ring finger .
rock fell from the rib and rib bolt , striking employee on the lower back and hip area .
employee was standing , looking at pressure gauge , when fork lift driver was backing up . employee turned into fork lift , hitting his right knee on counter weight .
while walking along the walkway of the fletcher walkthrough crawler cddr-17 dual head roof bolter in the st leo section the injured miner rolled ankle and fell down , resulting in a dislocated ankle and foot .
customer on mine site to get a load of gravel but before doing so he raised the bed of his truck to clear it of debris . the bed was up approximately 18 '' to 24 '' when a problem with the hoisting mechanism   caused the injured to reach in between the raised truck body and the truck frame ( the truck body was not blocked against movement ) when the truck bed fell on his arm .
employee noticed pain in his leg . the doctor ordered an mri and has determined the pain is caused by a reoccurence of a herniated disc , an injury that occurred on the job in 1998 when employee stepped in a hole and twisted his back . he will undergo a fusion on 1/1/01 and is expected to be out of work for three to six months .
employee was removing `` metal floors '' from number 7 feeder when he felt pain in his back . note : prescription prescribed for pain
field maintenance technician was using 2 1/2 '' bolts to attach the propel transmission to the car body of a shove . the hydraulic torque wrench slipped off the nut being tightened and struck him in the mouth lacerating his lip . he received 5 sutures in his lip .
employee replacing drag link . pin was installed - new link pivoted on pin and struck finger .
the employee ran out of hog rings in the clip gun . when the employee sat the gun down , the clip gun went off and severed the tip of employee's left index finger .
employee was granted an award from west virginia worker's   compensation division for occupational disease ( hearing loss ) .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the 5400 ' mark of entry number 6 of the 2nd north panel . this is mobile mining unit 003-0 unit 3 at 88 cross-cut . this happened over the holiday weekend , and was found by the pre-shift examiner at 11:25 pm .
injured was struck by a piece of draw rock approximately 3 ' x 4' x 4 '' . injured was taken to hospital for medical treatment and was discovered employee suffered fractures in employee's back and foot .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis . no % disability at this time .
loading pipe onto pullcart in elevator bottom , cart moved a little pipe slipped and jammed finger against wall .
a unplanned roof fall occurred in the 3rd east panel , spad # 2+50 , entry # 4. the fall measured approximately 18' wide x 18' long x 8 ' high .
east 2 , 23 block , 3 entry mobile mining unit 006 . 17' wide x 60 ' long x 12' high . support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts , roof mats . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee was welding on dozer blade . dozer blade was blocked up and blade fell from blocks , hitting employee's right knee and injuring ankle .
lifting top structure and installing in belt line on belt move and pulled something in right shoulder .
cut left wrist walking through mandoor . four sutures .
walking in steel lay down area , rock rolled and twisted right ankle . refused medical treatment until 4-25-00. returned to full duty . scheduled follow up appointment on 4-28. on 4-28 he was given modified   duty .
turning crank handle on coarse sand belt to reposition chute . handle was not properly latched , broke loose and struck employee in right side .
i received a call from security had notified the mantrip bus was on fire . the security guard had stopped near the bus to eat lunch when employee noticed flames come out from under the hood . the job was idle no and employees were injured . this was an inactive part of the job where employees parked .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on 7 miner section , number 2 entry , spad # 11666. it measured 60 ' long x 18 ' wide x 12 ' high .
employee was pulling on an air hose and slipped in the middle of the haul road and landed on his left hip causing a contusion . on 9-27-2010 saw doctor and was referred for an mri . mri was given on 10-20-2010 and results were obtained on 10-27-2010 and were negative . this is now a lost time reportable injury .
employee was working in inert atmosphere while wearing mine rescue apparatus building temporary seal .
a roof fall measuring 35' long x 25' wide x 9.5' high occurred 1 break inby spad number 9965 in the 1st low tension panel off or the 5th right panel in the belt entry approximately 2,030 ' outby 002 mobile mining unit ( number 1 section ) . area was bolted with 6 ' torque tension bolts and 10 ' cable bolts .
north mains 70 block number 3 heading 4-way intersection mobile mining unit 003 type of support : 6 ft resin bolts , 6 '' by 16 '' plates , roof mats fall dangered off , additional roof supports set around fall .
employee went to help another coworker in removing wire mesh off of a scoop bucket , the coworker yanked on the mesh and caught victim's finger between the mesh . cause of this injury was lack of communication   . compliance with rules/regulations was not a factor , protective equip a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
employee was working on utilities above his head when he experienced back pain . he did not seek medical treatment until 4-22-02. reportable for treatment prescribed by physician .
employee was helping another employee unload a sheet of floor grading ( 36 '' wide x 20 ' long ) off the bed of a pallet truck . employee lost control of the grading with his left arm and the full weight of the grading   came off the truck and , according to employee , his right arm absorbed the full weight of the grading . the other employee still had his end of the grading supported . employee did not report the incident until
he had been standing all day running the plant when he turned wrong and hurt his back . he went to the doctor on 6/10/13 the doctor said it was a strain and employee went back to work . he was still having some trouble 7/11/13 they scheduled an mri . he seen surgeon on 7/22/13 and decided he didn't want surgery . he then went back on 8/8/13 and he decided to have the surgery on 8/28/13 .
adjusting rolls on coal mill and strained right   shoulder .
slipped on mud and water while carrying 36 '' pipe wrench . employee believes this is a reoccurrence   of 11/08/01 injury . saw chiropractor . for treatment . received notice of chiropractor treatment on 7/23/02 .
employee was hauling rock when highwall fell hitting cab shield on rock truck throwing employee against driver door .
employee was shoveling out a conveyor pit . employee got a lumbar strain from bending and twisting . this employee works for a temporary agency by the name of cfsi .
the maintenance crew was moving and placing a piece of hdpe pipe . in the process of setting the pipe , which had apparently caught on something , the pipe released , which catapulted the pipe into the employee , striking employee in the chest and pinning employee against a conveyor frame . employee was diagnosed with fractured left clavicle/shoulder .
employee was at the store to pick ( 2 ) 12 v equipment batteries when he picked it up , he said his back popped , and took him to his knees .
employee was building stopping and a block fell from top of stopping and fell on employee's left hand .
worker was standing on level surface pulling on rope to cover load with tarp . the rope/tarp connection broke and worker fell backwards , landing on his back and striking his head on gravel , resulting   in several small cuts to head and one on elbow . worker later complained of dizziness and doctor diagnosed blood clot at back of brain .
on 2/6/03 , injured was removing a roller frame from a dozer in pit 5 and felt a sharp pain in the back of his neck . he left work around 10pm   on 2/7/03 he contacted the safety dept . and was transported   to the center of occupational health and examined by a doctor and diagnosed with a trapezius strain . he was released to return to work with restrictions of no reaching above chest level .
employee was washing out the number 2 dissolver tank when he came in contact with a sharp piece of metal causing a laceration to his left forearm just above the wrist . this injury required sutures .
a foreman was holding a transition tube so the scoop operator could tram under it and then he could drop it into scoop bucket . the scoop bucket hit one of the tube ends and the foreman's   left hand was caught between the tube and the fan .
fall of roof north b section . continuation of fall reported on 5/10/06 . b-entry north b section . 17 '' wide 6 to 8 feet high difficult to determine length . could be 3 separate falls or 1 solid fall approximately   18 '' long . grey shale top 6 '' resin 12 '' cable bolts 20 ' cable bolts between entry .
hammering idler pulley on excavator ( at 320 lbs ) excavator
employee was heading down the main in a truck when he apparently hit a bump causing his cap lamp to dislodged from his hard hat and strike him in the mouth .
he was standing behind a kubota putting a tire in the bed , the tire caught on the corner and he felt a pop . we received a note from the doctor to place him on restricted duty on october 1 , 2014
employee alleges while working on the north side of number 3 tower , loosening bolts on the screen deck and pulling a wrench toward his body , he felt a pop in his right shoulder . the pain continued for the remainder of the day , increasing through the night . he went to the clinic the next day where he was given medication to take every 4 - 6 hours as well as restricted work duties .
the employee shanked a striker bar took striker bar off of the longhole drill machine and the 30 feet of drill rod fell out of the hole and struck the employee on the left hand . required 5 stitches .
exchange used an impact gun [ approximate   weight   60-70 lb ] for about 35 min . causing vibration and felt a sharp pain to lower left back and both legs gave out causing him to stumble but not fall . employee complained of pain to lower left back radiating down left leg , employee taken off work by his doctor .
employee was welding in blunger . after his shift , both eyes reddened , became teary and painful and vision blurred . employee saw eye doctor and was diagnosed with kerato conjunctivitis secondary to welding arc . he was given prescription eye drops and anti-inflammatory .
while working off a step ladder , employee pulled a piece of conduit and twisted ladder causing it to fall and employee fell on top of it .
roof fall on head gate of 5 north longwall ( 021-0 ) panel at 100+43 . fall is from outby tip of headgate shield to crusher . fall is approximately   20 ' long and 12 ' high . rib to rib in entry . no injuries   to any miners .
a coal chute cone , the cone slipped on a come-along causing it to drop about 2 '' in height . the ' other two come-alongs held the cone from moving
while bolting , a rock fell from the mine roof and struck employee's arm ( left ) . this required sutures .
employee received   2nd degree chemical burns on top of both forearms as a result of contact with caustic-laden clay . he was cleaning clay out of the vacuum canister on the mbc extruder vacuum line . the clay   got on his arms while cleaning it out but he washed his arms with water after completing the job . later that evening he noticed water blisters forming on both forearms where he had contacted
while cleaning up and handling heavy metal screens , anvils and slingers , during the process of the day , the employee's shoulder became painful with crunching and popping sounds . accident did not become reportable until 5/24/07 , when employee sought medical attention .
employee injured his right great toe in the company shower . he continued to work 2 1/2 weeks latter it was still bothering him he went to see the doctor x rays show a small fracture .
while changing anvils on a vertical shaft impactor crusher he strained his lower back .
employee was walking from mantrip to miner in number 4 heading , hit head against top and fell injuring neck and back .
employee was attempting to pull an empty 5-gallon hydraulic can out of the frozen ground . as he was pulling on the handle of the can , one end of the handle broke loose from the can and cut his little finger ( 6 stitches required ) . employee was wearing a pair of insulated leather gloves at the time of the incident .
employee states she was swatting at mosquitoes when this incident occurred . employee was performing a pre-operation inspection of recovery pit pump . as she approached motor disconnect switch she slipped in   a puddle of slimes . she states she did not fall but momentarily lost her footing . she complained of back pain a few hours later . she was seen by company doctor and placed on restrictions .
employee was climbing down the back of a ladder on a loader when he missed the bottom step and fell to the concrete floor .
right index finger was fractured while tightening bolt on a crusher . swinging a 15 lb . sledge hammer and caught finger between handle and crusher bolt .
employee was walking by the blowby hose while water was coming out of it after a new bit had been put on . water quit coming out and a small amount or air came out like trapped air in a water line that   was turned on after water had been shut off . this caused hose to pull loose hitting him on his left leg bruising it .
injured slipped and fell onto his right elbow and right shoulder . he continued to work until 5/17/00 , at which time he went to the doctor and was told to take time off to allow for healing to take place .
a new employee hired as a laborer was cleaning and shoveling around crushing plant and strained his lower back .
employee was a passenger in a mantrip . the trolley pole was dislodged from the trolley wire and struck him on the left side of the head . accident occurred on the oakdale bottom .
employee was un-stopping chute at sampler . piece of coal was lodged between chute and sweep arm . when sweep arm broke face piece of coal flew out and hit employee in left eye . did not have glasses
while helping to clean up build up around return belt pulley , as employee pulled up on the pry bar injured worker felt a shooting pain in groin area . injured worker has an internal hernia as diagnosed by physician .
rock fall ; in main return on belt 2a , 20 ' x 70 ' x 5 ' high . no equipment involved , no ventilation affected . mine safety and health administration and office of mine safety and licensing notified , will rehabilite the area ; clean up and install additional support .
employee was beating on a pin on an excavator when a piece of metal broke off and hit the employee in the jaw - 2 stitches .
carbon monoxide samples in the recently opened west lease , north/south entries began to demonstrate increasing and fluctuating values to a point that we determined to call mine safety and health administration . sufco had been consulting with the price filed office concerning the sample results . there was not a sudden influx or inundation of gases .
the employee had pushed the slider tube forward and turned to go get another tube when a piece of rib ( 24 '' x 18 '' x 4 '' ) fell out and struck the employee in the back of neck and hard hat .
employee was setting breaker up when it blew up causing burns to right side face , ear and right hand .
employee was tramming pinner from the side to re position pinner. the tram chain broke and a link struck him in shin .
rotating engine to readjust valves on loader , he twisted back .
employee was cutting outer jacket off of a tram motor cable when the knife slipped and cut his left thumb . this is a courtesy report . this injury not required to be reported as no stitches were   used .
employee was working on number 12 atlas drill . working surface of drill was elevated approximately 40 '' off ground . he climbed up the equipment to retrieve a battery charger using an 8 '' block of wood as a step ladder   . as he stepped down , the wood block turned and employee fell backwards and turned in the air landing on his left hand and right wrist .
employee alleges that he hurt his left shoulder while rolling a hydraulic hose . employee was treated by a medicine doctor   and returned to work on restricted duty and will follow up with his doctor in two weeks .
employee was restacking 50 lb bags . he picked one off the floor and felt pain in his lower back . employee did seek medical attention .
employee was driving new oem wedge into the manufactured wedge slot of crusher to separate the top shell from the bottom shell with a number 8 sledge hammer . a small chip of the wedge sheared off and lodged into employee's lower left thigh near knee cap .
employee was grinding off metal that had been cut on flop gate . a piece of metal must have got under employee's safety shield and safety glasses , causing an abrasion to eye . employee did not notice discomfort until employee got home .
employee was welding and did not wear a welding hood . he received flash burns to his eyes .
employee was performing hot work on a crusher roll , as employee stepped back to review the cut employee had made , the limestone fines found in the crevices of the roll burst outward , causing dust to enter the employee's left eye . employee was seen by doctor and a corneal abrasion was found and prescribed eye medication .
employee was cutting piece of two inch pipe with a cutting wheel . employee reported that debris entered left eye . no foreign body was located upon examination . employee received ofloxacin solution to prevent infection .
employee previously worked for gateway eagle coal company , llc and retired on 06/27/2013 . on 05/30/2014 information was received diagnosing the employee with occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee was exiting cab of mucker when the machine articulated . he was pinned in the door and received a pelvic fracture . mine safety and health administration was contacted immediately pending additional information about the extent of the injury .
electrician was removing electrical tape from a motor lead with a utility knife . the knife slipped off the tape and cut his left thumb between the first and second knuckles . the cut was about 1 '' long and required four stitches to close .
employee was standing inside of 5 1/2 crusher bowl . he was using air chisel to remove old nordbak from filler blocks , one of the blocks came loose and fell to the floor and over on to top of employee's   foot causing fracture in bone of left foot .
employee was shoveling into a dumpster hopper and pushing the dumpster onto and off of an elevator car . complained of back pain 24 hours after the incident .
tech . attempted to pick up a chock block from under a haul truck . he felt pain in his groin area , after doctor visit it was determined that he had a hernia . employee had surgery on 3/10/11 . employee missed no time from work and has received   full release to return on his next scheduled   shift .
while doing some fabrication work , employee had to use the grinder and his thumb made contact with the grinding stone .
a fall of supported roof occurred at spad station number   447 in the number 3 entry on number 4 belt on south mains . no injuries resulted from this fall , no equipment was damaged , ventilation was not impaired . the fall measured approximately   18 ' x 20 ' x 7 ' high .
employee reported he was experiencing eye irritation that he attributed to welding flash burn . he worked monday and tuesday day shifts in section 2 performing intermittent small welding jobs . he worked   overtime in the power house on a welding job monday 3-11 shift . he said he could not identify a specific event but that his eye became irritated slightly on the 21st and more severe today .
walking to mail drop , tripped on carpet and fell to floor . tried to break fall by putting hands out , hitting cabinet and counter . struck her face on the counter . hands were bruised and both knees hit cabinet doors and knobs . one knee struck the door knob and the other the cabinet . continued to have complications with knee . mri : torn meniscus in left knee ; surgery scheduled 1/18/06 .
employee moving a steel box when the plate clamp slipped and the steel box fell onto employee right foot fracturing a bone in right foot . employee released with light duty restrictions following ortho specialist exam .
employee stated lifting and handling 66 '' 6 '' x 6 '' wooden timbers , placing under machine for support before making repairs , experienced pain to his lower back .
while employee was entering elevator on 1st floor of millroom , he raised his right hand to secure latch at the top right-hand corner . when he did this , the elevator door slammed shut onto his finger . ( please   note : employee overrode safety feature of elevator door by placing hand in a pinch point ) .
a roof fall was found at 9:45 am in the small block submains bleeder , at break 14 , in entry 3 and 4. the fall was approximately   7 ' x 20 ' x 80 ' . the opening was 20 ' wide and 8.5 ' high. additional roof support was added to the area .
employee was removing a piece of unused electrical wire stuck between 2 guards he was installing . the wire was stuck so that he continued to pull harder each time until the wire was dislodged . as it became dislodged , his safety glasses fell off of his face . that time he pulled back toward his face pushing the wire in his eye .
employee was fabricating a reinforcing mat of rebar for concrete . he was burning a piece to size when a spark went under his safety glasses and went into his eye in the pupil area , becoming lodged .
roof fall has occurred on the number 2 section ( mobile mining unit 002-0 ) the fall was 42 inches thick , 17 feet wide and 22 feet long in the number 4 right cross-cut at survey station number 853 . ( narrative per violation number   8070199 )
employee was installing roof bolts on number 4 unit . a piece of rock fell and struck him on the right arm above his kevlar sleeve causing a laceration . this laceration had to be closed with sutures .
employee is unit repairman . he was trying to take fitting off of y strainer on feeder water system with a pipe wrench . while pulling on pipe wrench , he strained lower back muscle .
the employee was walking along the catwalk along c-7 conveyor when the last section of grip strut catwalk slipped out from under his feet causing him to fall about 9 feet to the ground . the section of catwalk was not bolted down .
employee had finished bolting for the night and was just about to leave for the man trip when he realized he had left his wire cutters on the bolter . he reached back and grabbed the cutters , then turned around running into the edge of the atrs on the bolting machine . this caused a laceration above the left eye which had to be closed with sutures .
the employee was roof bolting when a broken fitting was discovered on the outside of the roof bolter . employee stopped bolting and walked around the back side of the machine and walked up the side and found the fitting that was broken . employee turned around and started back when a rock fell from the top where the roof meets the coal and hit employee in the right ankle .
an unintentional hoist stoppage occurred at the crab apple portal . an electrical malfunction occurred when a motor shaft connected to the tachometer   and sending false reading to the drive unit .
employee driving rock truck up out of steep pit when the load shifted to the rear causing the trucks front end to raise up 4-5 feet and then slam down jarring the truck causing pain in lower back .
employee was swinging a sledge hammer trying to remove a large pin on a demag .
he was bagging on the number 25 bagline when he sprained a muscle .
employee , plant electrician , was shocked while cleaning inside of control box of diesel pump , in which he thought was de-energized . he was spraying with cleaner and wiping it out , and received a small   shock 110v causing him to fall backwards striking head and shoulder on pipe .
fire service technician was disabling the fire suppression system . ansul check valve was installed improperly , arrow pointing improper direction not allowing pressure to release . he loosened the top actuator nut causing the pressure to release through the plastic on the pro activating devise actuator which fragmented causing laceration to the technician's nose .
helping siloman start roto valve , slipped and twisted right knee .
miner was preparing to work on a crusher . upon inspecting the crusher , employee hit head on the overhead conveyor ( de-energized ) , which knocked off employee's hard hat . employee lurched forward to grab the hard hat and hit head on a support for the conveyor wiper which cut employee's head . employee received 5 staples from the emergency room . employee returned to doctor the next day and was released to full duty .
employee was cleaning road entrance on vulcan side scalehouse . entrance road right of way was blocking view of traffic leaving the plant . employee reported this on 6-28-01 , went to doctor on 6-28-01 , received a shot . employee has no restrictions .
employee was chipping ice buildup with hammer and hit his right wrist with hammer
employee strained a muscle in his mid-back while moving pipe .
williamstown contractor employee sustained a laceration to his right upper thigh while using a hand held grinder to cut a section of the impact bed of the 1 north number 2 belt when the grinder kicked back and struck his leg . sutures were required to close the wound .
employee was carrying 2 bags of rockdust when 1 bag slipped out of his hand landing on his left foot . began losing time 4/26/13 .
north 5 belt , between 72-73 block , 5 entry , mobile mining unit 004 spad number 8271 . 17 ' wide x 30 ' long x 8 ' high . support : 6'3/4 '' resin bolts , screen , pans , truss bolts , straps , 6-12 ' . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
cowling bottom - employee was troubleshooting under the hood mantrip . when troubleshooting was done , the hood of mantrip dropped down , crushing right little finger .
while backing a loader up from getting a bucket of coal , right rear wheel dropped down in a hole bouncing operator and injured his lower back from shock above and bounce
employee alleges that he sustained multiple physical injuries from minor motor vehicle accident . employee was driving truck and had left the truck dump station . he was traveling approximately 5 mph going down hill and 'rear-ended ' another truck that had stopped . submission be filed under protest
the employee was using a porta power ram to open a drain at the bottom of autoclave number 2 on the 5th compartment . a piece of material entered behind the glasses . the eye was irrigated without success   and the employee was transported to emergency room . the eye was anesthetized and a foreign body removed from the right lateral corneal edge .
employee was exiting the komatsu , pc400lc , excavator and slipped off the track and fell to the ground and twisted their knee , causing a bump in the knee .
while rolling ( moving ) rock off miner , employee mashed finger with rock .
employee was pulling a partially frozen fire hose off of a raffinate tank and felt pain in her back .
allegedly , while removing chunk from gyp feeder , employee was hit in the face when large chunk came down hitting bit on chipping gun .
employee was cutting zip ties from stake with a utility knife and cut his left hand between thumb and forefinger .
employee was walking on spoil material and stepped in a hole with his left leg . nothing was reported . approximately   1 week later the right leg began to swell . subject went to doctor and was told he may have   a blood clot in his right leg . treatment did not help so he went to another doctor who found the right leg broken due to overstressing the bone .
employee was descending a ladder when he stepped onto the floor , his left knee twisted and he felt a pop .
rockdust hose blew off and employee ran into tool box at bunker . employee did not start losing time until 9/26/02 due to shoulder surgery
when employee and coworker were removing the tail pulley guard he stepped over uneven ground and lost his footing . when he stumbled he caught himself not completely falling and hurt his back . employee has worked full duty with some back discomfort until 3/09/2012 when he had surgery to alleviate the pain . - this surgery makes the incident reportable lost time 03/12/2012 .
employee was using adjustable wrench to remove torch from oxygen/acetylene supply hoses . the pulling motion induced tension on left shoulder resulting in muscle/tendon strain . on 7/28/03 , orthopedic specialist prescribed anti-inflammatory and possible therapy .
employee was removing loose rock in wire mesh when a rock fell striking his right 5th finger causing it to hit the man basket . employee received a laceration that required stitches .
employee was crawling out of gravity screen box and fell approximately 4 ' landing on his chin . he busted his chin open requiring 5 stitches .
on 12/8/2016 , an employee was at the tricanter to do clean up of electrolyte and organic . as employee stepped off the curbing and onto the yellow ramp , they slipped , landing on their side hurting their right ankle . on 12/9/2016 , employee was given restrictions .
while lifting the motor guard on hp400 cone with a crane , the picking bolt pulled out of the threads and the guard came down from the crane hook . as the guard came down , the corner of the guard hit employee in the face on the left cheek . employee was taken to the hospital where he received five stitches .
a customer truck driver was injured at the mine when he fell from his truck bed while tarping his load . the driver disobeyed hanson site specific training by exiting his truck and climbing in to his bed . the driver lost his balance when a tarping hook snagged his pant leg which caused him to fall . the driver suffered a fractured right wrist .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at spad 9 and 30 on the 1st northwest panel number 4 entry 2 e headings . it measured 20 ' by 19 ' by 12 ' . the approaches are timbered and dangered off . the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was installing track on a dozer . he struck the track with a hammer to align it . a chip of metal struck him in the left leg . four stitches to close .
employee was operating tr13 lube buggy . pulled up to number 23 to jump start . set brake and chocked tire . reached in to set high idle on lube buggy . lube buggy was left in 2nd gear . tr13 overcame brake and proceeded forward throwing employee to the ground . resulted in employee injuring left knee . two employee's affected .
employee was asked to assist another with anode that fell off strongback . while assisting , employee noticed the anode next to the one being replaced wasn't completely on hook . he grabbed the anode ear and was pushing the ear back on hook when opposite ear came off other hook . employee attempted to let loose but left middle finger was smashed between ear of anode and rack .
shredded plastic used for alternate process fuel that was stored in a covered containment caught fire . unknown if the cover or plastic ignited first , cover was burnt off the structure and surface of plastics was burnt . source of ignition unknown . fire was extinguished but had exceeded 30 minute time frame , call was made to mine safety and health administration hotline . report to be filed with area mine safety and health administration office .
employee was handing a pry bar to a coworker when he felt weakness in his forearm and elbow .
the injured is a roof bolter , he said he had a bolt stuck in the hole in roof when he pulled the bolt out of roof he mashed his little finger between the bolt head and the wrench on bolter .
lifting 60 lb . rock samples repetitively into bed of pickup truck , which created a repetitive motion injury .
building a stopping he dropped concrete block on his own head . he continued working until 3/6/01 .
employee was shoveling under the number 2 tail pulley and the employee bent under the catwalk to get to the other side . when the employee tried to get up he felt a pop in his back
employee reached down to retrieve the ground wires from the motor cycle center raceway . there was contact between the ground wires and the energized 480 vac buss . an arc occurred and he received burns to both hands .
the employee was removing a rock from bridge conveyor . when he reached into bridge conveyor , his right middle finger was caught by conveyor flight .
as employee climbed down the scaffold ladder he misjudged the scaffold deck . he fell from the third from bottom rung hitting his right side on the scaffold midrail .
a roof fall was discovered by a mine safety and health administration inspector and company safety official in the face of cross-cut number 28 going from 4-3 heading on the 10 left section . the section was idle at the time the fall was discovered . due to the location of the fall , the size is unknown at this time .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia north portal on the number 3 belt/cross-cut 94/7950 ' . the fall was approximately   100 ' long , 18 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of people . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 21u .
employee was getting out of the scoop . he had one foot out of the scoop ( left foot ) , as he was pulling his right leg out of the cab he struck his shin on the cab frame , cutting his shin .
employee left the section and went outside without telling his supervisor . supervisor call outside and told employee to return to the section or he considered him quit for walking off the job . employee left mine   site and went home . after he got home , employee called back to the mines and told the guard that he hurt his back by pulling a piece of brattice cloth .
while bagging , a 2000 lb . bulk bag fell on his hand .
employee was in the process of putting roof bolt resin in a hole when he placed his hand on top of the canopy and a piece of rock fell and struck his pinky finger .
employee was repositioning an 8 ' ladder when he experienced pain in his lower abdomen . on 6/15/00 , he was still experiencing discomfort and was taken to lutheran medical center .
on 10/11/06 employee reported to supervisor that his back was sore due to work he was doing on 10/7/06 . employee reported using chipping gun overhead to remove buildup of material in elephant trunk of number 4 rr belt head pulley . on 10/12/06 at the end of the shift he went to doctor and returned to work on the 13th reporting that he had gone to the doctor .
employee had a 1/4 '' x 6 ft factory wire pull rope attached to overhead crane hoist . it was attached to a new wear plate . when the plate was hoisted to the bucket , the crimped end of the cable got stuck in the hole . bill then took a six foot pry bar and cleared it . the sudden release of energy from the bar pulled the slate bar to the bucket , smashing his left thumb .
person was pushing rock into longwall face conveyor after gob out occurred at headgate . while doing so he inadvertently fell into the face conveyor and was pulled under rock in the panline as conveyor was stopped . injuries include   lacerations to head and lower abdomen , fractures to pelvis , left elbow and wrist , right hand . accident was investigated by mine safety and health administration west virginia and mettiki officials .
employee was cleaning sticky coal from the buckets in the coal elevator . while cleaning a bucket , a piece of coal fell and struck him on the arm .
after hanging the miner cable around the intersection in lob number 6 entry , employee was talking to the foreman . the scoop operator inadvertently hooked the miner cable 2 breaks away . causing the cable to fall down and drag across the intersection causing employee to trip over cable . resulting in falling on a baseball size rock bruising his back .
employee was reaching for a shovel when a rock fell out from between two longwall shields and struck him on his left shoulder , knocking his hard hat off his head .
employee was pushing raw coal on the number 1 stacker as he backed up and turned the dozer to the right , the dozer became stuck in the number 1 variable feeder . there were no injuries with this occurrence
employee was servicing number 2 stoker plant . while greasing feeder bearing , he put his right hand behind bearing to see if any grease came through . the feeder caught his hand and cut his right index finger and thumb .
while climbing down ladder on primary crusher , 4th step broke causing employee to fall on crusher hitting middle of his back .
while roof bolting the injured was drilling a hole into the mine roof when a portion of roof broke around the drill steel . the rotation of the drill caused the rock to spin around the steel . employee stopped the rotation and the rock broke and a portion of it struck employee on the forehead above the left eye . the rock caused a laceration and small portions had to be surgically removed .
employee was pouring air line antifreeze into a fitting on the air line going to the air compressor . trapped air in the line caused it to blow back into his face . he was wearing glasses .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 11 mains north section between 9 cross-cut and 10 cross-cut in the number 5 entry . the fall was 12 ' wide , 30 ' long , and 6 ' to 8 ' high . the fall was due to a slicken side fault that appears to have been localized to the fall area . there was also some evidence of improperly installed roof bolts .
the employee was drilling pin holes for pipe supports a rock fell from the back and struck his left thumb . it caused a fracture and the employee received a release for 10-10-03
mechanic was installing a bogie roller on a spare portable car body . mechanic was attempting to position the roller and had the flange of the roller on top of the track rail . the bogie roller slipped into place pinching his right pinky finger between the roller and the track rail .
while an employee was stepping out of the skid steer employee had been operating employee rolled employee's right ankle when employee's foot contacted the roadway . seen by site medic , referred to the emergency room , x-rays were positive for a fracture , restrictions were issued .
there was an ignition in f-11 at the face of number 3 inby 6 wall 170 ' . the ignition lasted 20 seconds and was extinguished with water sprays and water hose . there was no damage to equipment or injuries   to personnel .
while driving scoop outside , the injured person hit a hole in roadway taking steering wheel out of hand and hitting on top of hand .
employee was climbing down the ladder of a cat 988b loader when the last step of the ladder broke . this caused him to pitch forward and bruise his chest on the ladder .
employee was holding pin in place , while other was driving pin into bucket boss with a sledge hammer . other struck employee's hand .
while installing a 8 ' torque tension roof bolt - employee's hand ( right ) was struck by the bolt wrench .
mechanic was removing tooth from loader bucket . hammer on tooth to loosen , sliver of metal broke free from tooth and pieces mechanic in chest . metal fragment sliver was removed by medical personnel at emery medical center . puncture required 6 stitches and mechanic returned to work .
employee was turning a bull wheel by pulling the powerbands to troubleshoot a zero speed switch problem on the crusher rolls and caught his right fingers between the belt and bushing . three fingers were fractured .
at 6:31 am an explosion occurred behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . mine safety and health administration , state and company have initiated investigation but results not yet available .
employee was weed whacking when he hit a yellow jacket nest resulting in stings .
employee was sitting working on super scalper and when he raised up to change position he felt pain in his left hip down to his knee .
employee was operating a scoop and pushing a coal hauler to the battery charging station . the equipment became entangled and suddenly freed up , which resulted in a substantial jolt . employee's head was th rust upward into the canopy and he was momentarily dazed and this was followed by couple of minutes of tingling sensations in his extremities .
employee was helping other plant personnel change bottom belt roller on conveyer # 1. a rope was tied to one end of the roller to aid in picking up and installing the roller into its frame . employee   was in an elevated position , and pulled a muscle in his chest .
crane was holding the lock post cylinder 8 '' -10 '' above the platform as the employee was kneeling beside it employee was hitting the lock post cylinder rod trying to extend it out when the snap ring holding the top cap in place came out and allowed the cylinder body to come loose , hit the platform and fall onto the employee knee .
blast crew member injured employee's right hand when employee tripped over a rock while walking and reached out to catch self from striking the mine floor .
employee was standing at the desk in the scale house weighing a truck when high winds blew the roof off of the building and blew out all of the windows in the building . employee sustained a cut on the hand which required stitches .
employee was attempting to remove poly hoses from a culvert by bending down and pulling them through the culvert . he felt a lower back discomfort when he pulled on one of them .
injured employee , assisting a vendor in installing an air conditioner fan motor on the roof of the production control room   of a 2570 dragline , stepped on a 2 '' pad eye and twisted his right foot inward . he suffered a fracture to his 5th metatarsal upon contact and was taken to the kayenta , arizona clinic for treatment . later , was referred to a flagstaff , arizona orthopedist for further evaluation and treatment .
employee was emptying trash drum and felt severe pain in upper back .
employee was dismounting the haul truck ( euclid r-35 ) using three points of contact . employee stepped down on a piece of rock and felt a pop in right foot . employee has a metatarsal fracture in right foot .
a piece of drawrock struck employee on the back .
employee was picking up an oxygen bottle and felt a strain in the groin area . continued to work until 7/13 when he reinjured it by picking up a beam .
employee was working on miner and while he was using a sledge hammer he hit his left hand and fractured it around the thumb area .
sliding 4 '' h beam over the top of the last shield on the recovery face rock fell along side of the shield striking employee and landing on his ankle . cause of the injury was safety awareness . compliance with rules/regulations , protective equip was not a factor . miner knowledge may be a factor , mining systems could be a factor .
employee stated that he was loading bolts onto a roof bolter band that holds bolts together was hanging loose his hand caught end of strap
employee was parking a mack truck after hauling product from stockpile . as the employee was exiting the truck his foot became entangled in his seatbelt causing him to fall to the ground and landing on his left shoulder , back and chest .
employee was cleaning around conveyor belt , loose material on conveyor when loader operator , loaded a dry heated bauxite material in hopper which spilled out of discharge chute onto employee . loader opera tor was unaware of employee during cleaning .
employee was welding on skid loader bucket and a welding slag got in his left ear .
immediate roof was shale app 5 ft thick adjoining sand stone in a long swag area bolted with 4 ft roof bolts shale pulled loose from sand stone .
dyno nobel crew was feeding loading hose through outbound hose sheave assembly . employee was standing on truck using 3 points of contact . employee's right hand was on hose boom carousel . hose boom moved pinching employee's middle finger right hand between hose boom guide wheel and hose boom carousel . employee received 7 stitches .
miner was making cut into face for second shuttle car load when an ignition occurred . there were no injuries .
employee stated : removing rock from feeder , flight caught rock , rock moved suddenly catching his finger against feeder frame .
he was washing down the slope belt facing inby , when he stepped on loose material causing him to fall and twist his left ankle . he continued to work at his regular duties but continued to have pain . he was removed from work on june 14 , 2010 after an mri indicated a nondisplaced talar fracture .
employee stated that he was loading a bed plate from old longwall face . he reached down to pick up a winch cable when he felt a pain in his back . he was placed on restrictive duty on 6/25/07 .
employee felt pain in his lower back as he bent over and threw cable out of roadway
the dozer operator was cleaning the number 540 dozer on the wash rack pad . he lifted a 75 lb stone off the side frame and felt a pull in his groin area . on 11-4-03 , was the first day lost .
roof fall between number 1 and number 2 entry cross-cut 15 , around 4'-6' high x 50' long x 20' wide . there were 2 cribs set in number 2 and number 1 entry . area had slip going through area ; area mined around october-november 1999. fall in isolated   area and was dangered and timbered off .
a roof fall occurred at 6a longwall belt entry at 3 and 84. fall measured 50 ' long and 10 ' to 12 ' high .
had rail car wrecked in booster drive area at number 21 break . had rail car jacked up and was going to pull car over with 3/4 ton come-alongs   . hooked up to a shackle on a rib bolt . when pressure from the come-alongs   loosened plate , a piece of rib rolled out and struck employee on the outside of the right   leg .
employee pinched his fingers between the steel frame of the multimul and the pry bar the employee was using to clear a product buildup . the prybar got between the belt and return roller of the multimul . employee suffered lacerations to his finger on both hands requiring 5 sutures to repair wounds .
employee was holding ladder for another employee when he took a step back , tripped and fell - hitting his head on the crossmember of a sawhorse . employee suffered a concussion .
employee was walking to his work area in basement of step 111 line 7 agglomerator when he slipped on taconite pellets and twisted his ankle .
while shoveling dirt and mud , employee hit right hand knuckle on a motor bracket , causing a laceration .
employee was assigned the repair duties of welding in a coal handling chute below secondary crusher at the crusher conveyor system . he repositioned his body to perform overhead welding . while doing so the hot welding rod contacted the left side of his neck resulting in second degree burns that were 3/8 '' in diameter .
employee was unhooking a hose off the bottom of tank y-15 . he thought he had bled the pressure off and unhooked the hose . the hose still had pressure in it . the bottom of the tank was not dogged off all the way . when he disconnected the hose , it spread out . his goggles were loose , caustic went between his face and his goggles into his right eye .
employee was closing a 6 inch coupling on a pump when a knot popped up on his right wrist . although a little sensitive , it did not cause pain . he reported it , iced it and continued to work . this is a ganglion cyst .
a grass fire occurred in sandow mine on tuesday , july 27 , 2010. the fire started at approximately 2:30 pm on buffer property owned by alcoa inc east of the mine reclaim area . an electrical spark started the grass fire . the alcoa rockdale and milano volunteer fire department responded . no injuries resulted from the fire and it was under control by approximately 3:30 pm .
employee was removing a piece of stuck core from core shore . sustained puncture wound to left hand .
the employee was instructed to push in the 3i surge pile . the employee exited his loader to remove cones that were in front of the syntron hole . when the employee went to move the cones he slipped on ice/snow that was in the yard catching himself with his left shoulder .
employee was cutting off a bit lug from a continued miner . he struck the bit lug with a sledge hammer and a piece of metal went in his left thigh . he was transported to hosp and treated , then referred to a specialist . the specialist determined that the metal should be left alone .
employee was prepping coal near quit time . as he was coming down off coal rib he missed the ramp he was jarred around in the loader allowing the right side of his head to strike a support inside   the cab .
employee was cleaning under the kiln feed and dust hopper when shove bumped the chute and material came out covering employee . dust got in eye causing an irritation and burn to face and right eye
employee was swinging a sledgehammer and hit a chainfall chain that was pulled tight , when the hammer `` bounced '' off the chain , employee lost his balance and landed on his tailbone causing a bruise .
employee was helping pull a piece of highline during a section move . the highline was being pulled by a scoop and became fouled on a 6 '' joint of water line . when employee stepped towards the water line to unfoul it , the water line broke and a piece of it struck him on the right leg , causing laceration . this occurred in the number 5 entry of the 001-0 mobile mining unit .
the employee stated that he was moving a piece of rock 36 '' x 40 '' x 5 '' out of the bed ( behind the push plate ) on number 2 coal hauler . when he lifted up on the rock , it slid on the slick metal and pinched his   finger between the rock and the bed plate . this resulted in a laceration of the right little finger . the employee was wearing gloves .
the employee was walking down the entry and stepped on a rock and twisted his right knee . the physician recommended ice , rest and possible therapy 9-26-03 the employee first day away from work was 9-26-03
employee was air gouging on a dragline bucket when a small piece of slag fell into his work glove and burned the middle finger on his left hand . this accident reported until 6-19-01 after the burn became   infected .
employee was at work when he felt a crick in his neck . did not report until 4-14-02. was not doing anything at the time he felt the pain . had been installing a hydraulic hose on a jumbo drill two ho urs earlier .
employee was changing screen cloth at the crusher , stepped on the discharge lip causing employee to slip and lose footing . employee slipped down the discharge shoot approximately 6 ' landing on the conveyor belt .
contractor employee ( c1 ) was moving refractory bricks from a manway inside a calciner when a second contractor employee ( c2 ) accidentally dropped a tweeter pipe on c1's right hand . c1 was taken to beaufort county hospital and x-rays showed c1 had a fractured index finger .
employee was kneeling down to wire tie the bottom of gates . employee felt a slight pop in right knee . when he stood up , he noticed his knee was swelling .
employee was using a pry bar to close the bottom door of a cement rail car . his hand slipped from the pry bar , causing him to lose his balance , and twist his ankle . this resulted in a sprained ankle .
employee was attempting to put hood brace back into place when the hood jumped out of its socket and fell on employee .
employee was removing 3/4 '' mounting bolt from base of 150 hp motor . a 1 1/8 '' combination wrench was being used . as employee pushed with excessive force to remove bolt , wrench slipped causing wrench to hit employee on chin resulting in laceration to chin that required sutures .
water truck parked at end of shift . during am hours , short occurred at battery cable . spark ignited grease on frame grease dripped onto fuel line , melting small hole in line . diesel dripped onto ground . sparks ignited diesel on ground . passing coal train saw smoke underneath truck @ 5:30 am called wright fire dept . fire dept arrived @ 6 am . extinguished fire @ 6:03 am .
a new roof fall was found in b-butt section of number 5 entry . last open cross-cut at survey station 19+45 . fall is approx . 60 ' long by 4-5 ' high by 80 ' wide ; area was supported with 4 ' resin bolts and is dangered off and doesn't affect ventilation   or escapeways . cause of fall was roof failure created by bolts which create a beam .
cumulative trauma to lower back from operating loader and running the number 2 sand plant for many years .
employee was adjusting packing on booster pump when the wrench slipped and pinched his finger between the wrench and pump base .
while crawling over post pile on pillar section . foreman's hand slipped and posts rolled and employee fell against post pile breaking rib .
employee was working on a rotary diverter when he hit his left thumb with a hammer , smashing his finger
employee was chipping out build up inside of cone crusher , accumulated debris fell on employee causing him to sprain neck .
employee had been stripping using a dozer . while the dozer was being fueled up , another employee noticed that the dozer was missing a pin . the employee walked back to where he had pushed down some timber to look for the pin . he stepped on a rock , it rolled underneath his foot causing him to fall and sprain his right ankle .
a sight string was hung from the roof screens so that the cans in the tailgate could be set in a straight line . after wedging in a can , the mini-trac was tramming outby to get another can when the sight string got caught on the machine and was jerked down resulting in the   j   hook hitting the injured employee in the right cheek . 7 stitches were required .
employee reported that he pushed the wrong lever raising the floor lift and causing his head and neck to be jammed into the canopy .
while exiting number 1 clinker cooler during repairs . handrail was missing on platform . employee fell hitting lower handrail with body . injury to left side rib cage .
the employee was using a hammer to clear clog from chute in surge tunnel . when clog was freed , his left hand was caught between a piece of angle iron 7 freed material . this resulted in stitches to middle   and index fingers .
roof fall &gt; e-mains number 15 block in number 6 entry 1-block outby station spad 602 . 20 long x 6 high x 15 wide
the victim trammed a scoop to a pallet of rockdust . he positioned himself between scoop and rockdust so as to load dust onto battery end of scoop . while landing rockdust the scoop drifted back wards mashing his legs between scoop and pallet .
the headgate drum threw a rock and it hit the injured int he right earmuff . a piece of the earmuff broke and puncture his right cheek it took 3 sutures to close the wound .
was removing a big rock from the grizzly with a bar and pulled upward on the bar hurting his back
employee was walking down longwall face and got foot stuck in relay bar . employee tripped and struck knee against a shield .
employee was climbing down a four foot ladder out of a generator trailer and stepped to the ground twisting his left ankle .
employee received a 5 % permanent disability award for occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee was shoveling spilled material from a pile near a conveyor tail pulley . employee did not turn entire body while shoveling and noticed a slight discomfort in lower back .
a fall of roof rock occurred in the entry driven off number 3 heading at number 40 cross-cut on the 8e section . no injuries or property damage resulted from this occurrence . it is not known when the fall occurred but it was found on 8-28-00 .
employee slipped while assembling equipment after repair and bent his leg underneath himself .
the employee was using a torch to melt snow from the head pulley on the near pit crusher when the pulley caught the torch and forced his hand to slam to the side . hitting a piece of angle iron .
employee was at the power box when a rock fell from the top , hitting him on the arm ( laceration to left forearm ) .
elevator down . the governor rope has some rusty places where it rests on the shive wheel at the bottom . national elevator found broken strands . rope is ordered . national elevator will replace asap .
employee was riding in a track mantrip and the mantrip jumped track at a curve , he claims to have hurt his neck . cause of this injury was excessive speed . compliance with rules/regulations was a factor , protective equipment ( hardhat ) was a factor , miner attitude a factor , mining equipment/systems not a factor .
employee was drilling and steel got stuck . he used a pipewrench with upward pressure to loosen the steel . when steel came loose , pipewrench hit him in mouth , chipping his tooth .
employee slipped and fell on ice and snow , injuring his right knee .
employee has filed a claim for hearing loss based on an evaluation by an audiologist .
employee was operating a front endloader on the night shift . at approximately 3:00 am . he began having chest pains so he went to the shop to rest . at the shop the supervisor asked him several times if he could take him to the doctor and he refused . at the end of the shift a coworker followed him home and contacted his wife . a doctor confirmed a heart attack . he has been off since 1/15/03 .
employee was operating bobcat up a hill , he accelerated too fast , causing bobcat to lose traction and roll over .
while lifting ring beam into place , employee put leg on steel to position it . ring beam hung momentarily on lip of liner plate . when it let loose , the force shoved on employee's knee and hip .
employee was taking nuts off a bolt and lost grip with pipe wrench , he was using a pipe for extension for leverage and when he lost grip on bolt , pipe struck him on the head .
employee was bolting when a t plate came down and struck his right wrist . medical treatment injury
employee was dragging roller along belt and felt a pain in left shoulder . originally reported as a report only incident , employee later asked for a doctor visit . it was found that employee has a labrum tear , bone spurs and fluid in left shoulder . employee is being scheduled for surgery and has been taken off work . employee's last worked day was 11/05/2015 .
while shoveling belt line the employee twisted his back while emptying shovel onto belt line . upon investigation of the incident and completion of subsequent medical tests/examinations , it has been now been determined that this is a reportable injury .
employee was driving track vehicle when cargo load required adjustment . while adjusting cargo load employee slipped and fell forward landing in prone position on deck . due to incline position of vehicle , employee then rolled off deck and fell approximately 5 feet and landed on spongy vegetated ground resulting in injury to left shoulder . employee was wearing all required personal protective equipment at time of event .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred in the number   3 out by entry at break number   79 in the secondary escapeway . the fall does not impede travel of miners or interrupt ventilation .
a roof fall was discovered at 1:30pm in the number 4 mains one cross-cut in by ss 651. the fall measures approximately   20 ' x 20 ' x 5 ' high .
while moving feeder cable employee stepped on a rock twisting his right ankle . employee was treated at med express in beckley and was diagnosed with a fibula fracture .
an employee was handing a piece of steel plate ( 2' x 3 ' ) from a shaker screen to employee and the plate slipped out of his hands and pinched employee's left hand between the steel plate and a pipe . he broke a bone in his left hand .
a roof fall occurred number 6 entry cross-cut number 10 main west number 2 entry 2a panel spad number 2878 one cross-cut north long 17 ' x wide 17 ' x thick 12 ' . the roof was bolted with 6 ' fully grouted bolts and 12 ' cable bolts .
employee stepped in a hole as he was exiting the mantrip . he felt pain in his left knee and back of left leg . he did not miss work until november 12 2002 .
worker was splitting stone using a hammer and chisel when he struck his finger with the hammer causing a crushing injury to his finger .
employee was installing a hydraulic hose on a 560 loader . employee pulled on the hose and felt pain in his wrist ; had slight swelling immediately . employee did not inform anyone until friday , 4/1/05 and employee refused to see doctor . on monday , 4/4/05 , employee still complained of pain , but still refused to see doctor . on tuesday , 4/5/05 , employee asked to see doctor . taken to doctor 4/6/05 .
while letting chain down from shoulder , extra loop of chain slipped off and caught right thumb , bending it outward . employee felt he could take care of thumb . went to doctor 5/27 . surgery on 7/17/04 .
while working on a crusher repair , the employee bumped his head on an overhead dust collection pipe . employee sustained a strained neck. employee reported incident on 1/22/04 worked entire shift . next shift stated his neck was sore -- treatment at clinic 1/23/04 returned   to work on 1/23/04 no restrictions
employee was injured when the concrete hose he was using to place concrete with surged due to an air pocket in the line . the end of the line where he was at jumped to the side hitting him on his ankle . he was taken to the hospital where they determined his ankle was broken . they put a cast on and sent him home . he has been released again for light duty work at this time .
employee was stepping off of a platform on the roof bolter and twisted his left knee when he stepped down . he worked up until 2/17/04 . his first missed work day was 2/18/04 . he has a knee strain and is scheduled for an mri .
during the employee's normal duties ( no event ) he had back pain . since being employed at this mine or by this company , this employee has had twelve back claims . please note : the employee stopped work on 6-18-02 .
employee ( left handed ) was using a 4 lb hammer with both hands to drive a dump shaft onto mobile bridge ( number 3 ) . the hammer glanced off shaft and hit sprocket ; and a small piece of metal from sprocket flew into his right hand causing injury . the piece of metal entered between middle knuckles and embedded itself in top of his right hand . puncture wound , laceration , and cut to vein ; top of hand .
on march 5 , 2007 the employee underwent surgery for a cumulative injury/illness . employee could not recall a specific injury or event . medical providers determined this was work related and cumulative in nature .
employee was loading track rails onto a flatcar when a piece of rail slid around catching his left index finger between the rails causing a laceration that required stitches .
the fall occurred last evening on unit 1 around 6:30 pm . fall occurred in an intersection in number 6 entry one break outby spad # 39563. area had been cribbed and rope bolted and was bolted with 5 ' torque tension bolts . fall was approximately 20 ' x 20 ' x 8 ' high . additional cribs have been installed on the belt line and all approaches have been cribbed off . the fall will not be cleaned up .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal at the main west entry number 5 , 4692 w at cross-cut 36. the fall was approximately 35 ft long , approximately 18 ft wide and approximately 16-17 ft thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of men . the fall will not be cleaned up .
mechanic had removed a flat tire from a western star tractor and while rolling it to the repair rack lost control and dropped flat on the floor . employee then asked another mechanic to help stand the tire back up . as the two mechanics up-righted tire the steel wheel dropped out of the tire hitting employee on the top of left foot just above the steel toes of work boots
using high pressure woma gun to break up material build up . dust fell onto helmet and when employee looked up , dust slid off helmet and between safety shield into his left eye .
injured lifted an acetylene tank up on one end to slide it into a carrying sleeve that was on a jeep . walked around and lifted the other end and slid it into the sleeve . he raised up and felt pain in middle of back . weighed approximately 90 pounds .
employee was raising water line across belt and track entry using 1-1/2 ton chain ratchet . he attached ratchet to clevis in roof bolt plate and when he applied pressure it pulled the plate and the nut off the roofbolt and a piece of drawrock fell striking him in the shoulder .
employee reported after removing nylon straps form low boy , walked over to slope shaft wall and hung on storage rail , turned to walk away , foot become entangled and fell on left elbow .
employee was cutting bags apart for use in the bagging machine and cut right thumb with the box cutter .
employee was taking an 8 foot 2 inch hose from the yard crew storage shed . he put the hose on his shoulder and started out of the shed . one end of the hose that was behind him got hung up as he exited   the door . he pulled hard on the hose to free it . when the hose broke free , he lost his balance and fell hitting his arm on side boards of trailer .
employee having chest pains and already taken two nitroglycerin tablets .
during the pre-shift of the 1 east submains . a roof fall was discovered int he number   6 heading . the fall occurred at survey station number   203 and measured approx 90' long x 20' wide x 4 to 10' high . there were   no injuries or equipment involved and ventilation was not affected .
an unintentional fall occurred on the 2nd west travelway at the number 38 intersection . the fall was due to deterioration of the roof above the bolt anchorage . fall was 45 ' long and 18 ' long and 7 ' high
employee was ringing bell wire when a rock fell from the rib , striking him in the right lower forearm .
employee alleges that as he opened the door of the mill office with his left hand , he stepped in and planted his right foot first . as he did , his foot slipped and twisted and his whole body twisted left and he lost his balance and fell with his back against the door .
a roof fall was discovered on this date 1/23/07 in the west mains number 5 entry between number 11 and number 12 cross-cuts . fall was discovered by the weekly examiner and reported immediately . the mine safety and health administration call center and district number 3 was notified at the time found . could not determine exact date or time of fall . no equip damage or injury . no disruption of ventilation .
employee was having symptoms of weakness and nausea . he sat down near his bucket . he reported to supervisor of symptoms and was sent to first aid room . emergency medical technician noted disorientation . employee was transported to clinic . diagnosed with heat exhaustion , dehydration and dizziness .
on march 3 , 2006 employee started missing time from an accident occurring on 5/19/2005 . on that day he slipped and fell against the tail of the continuous miner while working on the trailing cable . he underwent surgery on march 3rd to repair a damaged rotator cuff . management was informed that employee was missing time on march 24 , 2006 .
employee was sitting on a 3 wheeler mantrip , when another employee was coming out and bumped mantrip with forklift , while making a turn .
employee is 72 inches tall , the seam height is about 60 inches , and the floor is relatively dry . employee was attempting to move the miner cable and water line , while moving water line/miner cable , employee felt a pain in his lower back and heard a pop in his back .
an inundation occurred on the 001-0 section . the crew of 9 men and the foreman were working the 7 am shift in an area approximately   150 ' from the outcrop . the miner was trammed to the number   4 room and 2 shuttle cars were loaded from the right side of the face . the miner penetrated a non permitted mine inundating the section with water which didn't pose any danger to the workers . cut sealed .
the employee cut his right forearm while moving rods . sutures were used to close the cut .
while attempting to unload a crude ore train car , employee strained back and rib cage . employee went to a chiropractor on 6-30 for a manual adjustment and ultrasound/electric stimulation .
as he was stepping out of cab , his foot slipped off the step and he fell to the ground , striking his head , right rib cage , right arm and elbow . ambulance took him to emergency room , stitches in head   and first aid on ribs .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred during retreat mining and caught the continuous miner inby bridge and inby bridge carrier , one break outby spad # 3370. this occurred on 002 section
was exiting a backhoe , and struck head , while wearing a hard hat , on roof of cab. received bilateral c4 laminar fractures . employee did not report injury until 04/04/05 , and then said he did not know how he had done it . our industrial insurance carrier , aig , denied the claim originally . this was just overturned by the nevada state industrial commission .
employee was unloading the new screens when he grabbed a sharp edge on the side of the screen resulting in 9 stitches in his little finger - right hand . the screen company uses a shear to make the cuts on the screens
roof fall number 3 entry across from spad 2854. fall will not be cleaned up . it will be dangered off and timbered off . no ventilation disturbed . developed approximately november 2003 , fall is 60' x 20' x 8-10 ' , approximately 8000 ' from face and approximately 3000 ' from right face
employee was stepping into filter house when his foot caught the bottom part of the door causing him to fall forward . he struck the left side of his face and ear on the angle iron that holds the filters in place , causing a laceration to the face and ear . he had surgery on his left ear on march 12 , 2010. his first full day of lost time is march 11 , 2010 .
injured was filling up a piece of equipment when the fuel nozzle flew back and hit him on the right side of the jaw causing a bruise .
a roof fall was found at 10:30 pm on 8/8/2004 . fall was in a four-way intersection of entry 4 at survey station 33+90 5rms ( mobile mining unit 006 ) . area was mined 4/13/2004 and had been supported with 4 ' full resin bolts . inconsistent rock thickness contributed to roof failure . no injury or property damage resulted . fall was adjacent to travelway . no cleanup is planned .
while cutting a pipe , the piece he cut rolled over and struck his foot .
south mains 67 block number 10 heading 4-way intersection mobile mining unit 006 12 ft high x 20 ft wide x 20 ft long . type of supports : 12 ft cable , acs jacks , 6 ft resin , 6 '' x 16 '' plates , roof mats fall danger off , . additional roof supports set several fall .
injured worker was working building an underground seal . injured worker was prying a block loose and when the block came loose it cause the injured worker to fall .
employee stated that he was walking through an intersection when a piece of rock fell from the roof and struck him on the back . employee stayed underground until the end of his shift . employee was examined at the   hospital and all xrays were negative .
employee was handing screens from the lift basket to someone on the ground . he lifted the screen over his head and he hurt his neck .
employee was using a battery powered hand drill to install a spad in the mine roof . while drilling the hole a piece of rock ( 8 '' x 2 '' square ) fell from the roof striking him in the face resulting in a small piece of rock going behind his glasses . the piece of rock was captured under his eyelid . the rock was flushed out by a doctor and his eyes were coated with irritation medication .
employee was starting to climb a ladder and run his head into ladder cage next to him . employee was wearing a hard hat and he jammed his neck . emergency room gave him some muscle relaxers so thus constituting an mine safety and health administration reportable injury .
the employee was bolting the number   2 left cross-cut and had drilled the last roof bolt hole in the place . the coal height was too low in the area to put the 42 '' resin roof bolt in the hole . as he was bending the roof bolt slightly to get the bolt in the hole , he felt a pain in the right side of his lower back , near his rib cage .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in 6-north section ( rehabilitation area ) in number 8 entry , 3 blocks outby the face area , at station spad # 8332. it fell just above the 5 ' resin roof bolts . the length   of the fall is 18 ' , and width is 9 ' . ventilation was not affected . 6-17-03 - additional material fell for 20 ' additional inby .
employee was exiting mine at end of shift . employee's pickup truck stalled ( quit ) coming up slope . service truck was summoned to tow pickup . employee was assisting hooking service truck to pickup . the service truck slid in gravel and pinned employee's right leg between service truck and pickup .
a unintentional , non-injury roof fall occurred at spad 2706 , the fall was in the intersection and through the left break . size of the fall measured 50 ' long x 4.5 ' - 5 ' thick x 7 ' -10 ' wide . roof support was 4 ' fully grouted 75 grade resin bolts . no equipment was involved . ventilation was not affected . fall will not be cleaned up .
caught right   index finger between a bottom roller and the bed rail as he was throwing the bottom roller under the belt . employee went to the doctor diagnosed fracture to tip of finger .
employee stated he felt pain in right shoulder after throwing a piece of slate onto belt . diagnosed on 12/17/01 with torn rotator cuff from repetitive use of arm after years working as belt cleaner   .
employee was making a belt splice . as he struck the crimping tool with the hammer , a small piece of the crimping tool came off and lodged in his left arm .
miner was injured on 1-22-02 he was given a full release from the emergency room on 1-22-02. on 10-10-02 he had an operation to remove a mass that developed and will result in 10 restricted days .
employee was getting out of his coal truck to clean his windows after crossing the truck wash. he said his foot slipped off the bottom truck step landing hard on the ground . he said he fell backwards landing on his right hip . he had severe pain in that hip . he was taken to harlan arh emergency room , x-rayed and diagnosed with a large contusion , no broken bones .
employee was lifting a slab of sandstone up onto its edge to be split when employee sustained a sharp pain to lower back . physician diagnosis , lumbar strain
a fire started in the g pump power switch in the substation on 5300 level . the main breaker tripped thus putting out the fire . the mine was cleared of gases and returned to normal mining activity .
employee was driving a hauler . while being loaded . a big rock fell out of loader bucket and hit the off side of the bed causing a sudden jar .
during first mantrip into the mine , hoist brakes set suddenly , causing the shaft conveyance to stop abruptly .
employee and coworker were making a mechanical splice on a roll of belt on the 1 a conveyor belt . employee was moving the plunger for the multidriver tool and was struck on his right index finger by a 4 lb sledgehammer causing a fracture . coworker was driving the plunger with the sledgehammer to set the rivets in the mechanical splice .
employee was sweeping gravel into a shovel held by a coworker . when the shovel became full , coworker lifted it up hitting employee's right hand . the shovel struck employee's middle finger causing laceration . the coworker , a certified emergency medical technician , cleaned , applied antibiotic ointment , and bandaged the wound . employee reported this 3 months later and wanted to have it looked at by a doctor .
employee was helping maintenance man remove the drive guard from the quicklime secondary crusher at our old plant site . this is a large and heavy guard . the unbolted guard slipped from its mounting   bracket falling onto employee's finger . this resulted in a fracture of the tip of the finger and a laceration requiring 5 stitches . employee returned to work after leaving hospital .
employee was coming out of a hole after fixing belt on the crusher hanging onto a piece of angle iron which broke and fell into his face . cutting employee above the left eye .
employee was rock bolting when he stepped on a rock and roller his ankle , which sprained the ligaments in the ankle .
employee alleges he was pulling belt to make set-up when he strained his back
what was believed to be plumes of smoke and steam were observed flowing from the slurry borehole that penetrates an area of the mine . this area is abandoned and is no longer ventilated . all underground personnel were evacuated from the mine and an investigation was started with mine management , mine safety and health administration , state and united mine workers of america representatives . the investigation is still ongoing .
stepped from a rail car and felt a twinge in right knee
employee was doing a pre-shift inspection of his equipment . he slipped and felt pain in his right knee . he was taken to a physician for treatment and referred to an orthopedic surgeon for further treatment .
employee was attempting to unwedge a stuck rock in the jaw crusher . the wedge slipped causing it to fly up , striking him in the face .
employee stepped on a rock and fell backwards on his back and hit rocks on the ground with his back
on 12-11-2000 , employee , while preparing to leave work , slipped on snowy ground and fell on his lunch box . the fall resulted in 3 cracked ribs . employee did not notify his supervisor until 12-22-00. a re port was made out on 12-27-00 after an investigation by the superintendent and the main office received the report on 01-01-01 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 6th west headgate between number 2 and number 1 entry ( 6057 ' number 2 6090 '' number 1 ) . the fall was approximately   60' long x 18' wide x 10' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . it will not be cleaned up .
employee was asked to drive van 3269 down to the maintenance shop . she swung around a curve and lost control of the van after apparently spotting a deer in the haul road . the van slid sideways and tipped over   on its top after hitting the berm .
after medical examination miner has sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis ( black lung ) notification letter from mine safety and health administration .
during a belt move the injured was trying to separate two pieces of water line . while pushing/ pulling he cut his hand on the edge of the water line .
the employee was going up a set of steps and the tread broke cause him to fall backward and landing on the floor .
employee had been operating a 10 yard endloader that had a problem with the `` soft shift '' . this caused the machine to jerk more than normal when shifting from forward to reverse and vice versa . over a period of several days , this caused the employee's back to hurt . he saw physician on 9/15/03 and received osteopathic manipulative treatment .
employee was loading straps on the miner when employee cut their left wrist on a strap . received 10 sutures .
powderman was loading a face in the mine when a piece of rock slid down the face and cut his right arm about 2 '' about the wrist . the cut was about 1 1/2 '' long and severed a tendon . the room had   been sealed with scratch marks on the face on about 6 '' center . loose material had been removed prior to the powderman starting work .
roof fall in back entry developed approximately   one year ago , 3500 ' from working face .
while employee was exiting the cab of a cat 980 loader and climbing down the ladder , he placed his left foot on uneven ground and applied weight to it causing him to twist his ankle and fall to the ground   .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the galatia north bleeder entry number 4 ( a ) 208 north . the fall was approximately   150' long x 17' wide x 10' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners . the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was sitting in seat of front end loader , had removed his coat and was twisting to hang coat over back of seat when he felt burning pain in his lower back . had slipped on ice while walking to   loader , but did not fall . ( did not seek medical treatment until 12/19/03 ) .
the individual fell and reached to grab self and cut left forearm on a piece of angle iron . stitches were required and employee was released to resume work 2 hours later .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on e-mains , number 5 entry in by spad 6494. it measured 12 ' high , 18 ' wide and 60 ' long
a roof fall was discovered 1 break inby spad 972 in number 3 entry . the estimated size of the roof fall measured 6 ' high , 18 ' wide and 20 ' long . no injuries were reported as a result of this roof fall .
employee was using a 8 lb sledge hammer to dislodge material in loading pocket , pinched right index finger between structure and hammer handle . - fractured finger .
he was shoveling out bc1 and perlite went into his eye .
employee was getting box of bolts off on a warehouse shelf . the box slipped out of his hand onto a storage pallet . he attempted to retrieve the box and placed his hand on protruding nail .
employee was pulling and jerking on an old piece of cable , wrapped around the ripper head of the miner , felt pain in lower back . employee did not miss work until 2-26-01 - 1st lost day .
off road haul truck rolled from parked position into load out bin and smith setzer and sons occupied customer truck . bin and customer's truck were demolished .
apparently employee was moving down a drift when a fiber vent tube either fell or was hanging low enough to strike the cab area of the loader . there was muck in the tubing which may have caused a wright build up in the tube .
bottom door on a loaded rapid discharge air dump rail car was stuck in closed position . the employee inspecting the condition of the discharge piston placed his right-hand on the end of the piston sh aft . the door inadvertently opened with sufficient force breaking one bone of the right-hand below the little finger near the wrist .
employee was mixing grout to install grout rock bolts. water hose was laying on ground and had higher pressure . employee kicked valve on and whipping hose hit him in head multiple times while he tried   to catch it .
employee stated that he was rib pinning from the miner . when drilling into the rib , the employee was struck with a drill steel extension that came loose during rotation . he was struck in the face causing a laceration to the mouth area . the accident is still under investigation .
employee was granted an award of 5 % for occupational pneumoconiosis on 6-6-00 .
employee was changing out a box liner when the liner slipped and hit his ( left ) leg above his ankle requiring stitches .
employee was hanging miner cable along with his co worker employee struck . he experienced pain in his back as a result of handling the cable .
employee felt a sharp pain on right groin area while picking up his tool box .
was shoveling material on steps at station number 3 when he slipped on a rock as he performed his assigned task . employee worked shift , the next shift . twisted ankle at home prior to going to doctor returned to work 1-12-01 on a doctor slip
employee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome of the right wrist .
employee was welding handrails on a walkway and was using a 6 '' grinder to grind the weld and debris got into right eye .
palletizer had a fault . employee went to see what fault was . bags jammed in layer forming area . employee entered palletizer to clear jam . didn't lock out palletizer . load plates in open position . employee stood on top of pallet being loaded . load plates closed on employee's legs . employee was taken to emergency room , given first aid treatment/diagnostic procedure . diagnosed contusion to legs . put on restrictions
employee was plugging up out going 13,200 cat head transformer locate on bottom of b shaft , aggravated lower back ( felt pain in lower back )
employee was replacing bag coder on palletizer and put little finger of right hand on frame of coder . a 100 lb bag passed under coder pushing coder and frame pinching it between frame and crossbar . finger   was released after bag passed through . taken to emergency room . - finger was stitched and bandaged and employee released . employee did not lock out .
employee experienced shift change in his hearing . audio base line was set in 2000. he was tested on 11/5/2012 and a shift was discovered in left and right ears . shift was determined to be occupational . he was retested on 11/6/12 . shift in left ear remained . right ear shift no longer present . baseline for left ear will be reset . scheduled to see ear, nose and throat doctor on 11/21/12 .
employee was lifting a filter housing when he strained his left wrist .
employee had been cutting bolts off a 12 '' i beam with a cutting torch , after finishing his task he flipped up his shaded face shield and dust/debris got in his right eye . employee was wearing both face shield and safety glasses . employee's eye was washed out on site then he was taken to clinic . the doctor removed 1 small object from right eye .
employee was placing some clothing in cab of his service truck when he experienced pain in his back and legs . this should be recorded as an illness as there is no trauma or mechanism of injury .
an employee was drilling a hole for a roof bolt , when a piece of roof slate fell striking him on the top of his right thumb . note : the employee waited until his next shift to seek medical treatment .
employee was using a cutting torch , cutting conduit off basewall and the conduit sprung loose and struck employee i the right leg .
while rock dusting belt hose got hung employee pulled hose went back hit ear on rock . did not get injury report until 1/31/01
employee was preparing to clean out traps of the wash plant spirals when he fell down a trapdoor that had been left open by the previous shift
employee accidentally bumped tram lever which in turn permitted bolter to move onto foot .
employee fell while cleaning bottom of thickner at the prep plant . he strained his left shoulder in the process . employee started missing work on 9/10/07 due to left shoulder pain .
employee was walking in the course of his work duties. he reported he stepped on uneven ground and twisted his right ankle .
employee was welding on 3/15/16 and hot slag fell down sleeve causing a burn . on 3/23/16 , our employee notified us of this incident and sought medical treatment . employee was diagnosed with a burn and an infection .
a roof fall has occurred in west main section ( mobile mining unit 014-0 ) in the number 2 entry at spad number 71 and 25. the fall measures approx 20 ft long , 20 ft wide , 12-13 ft high . the fall approx 2100 ft outby the face
employee was loading anfo into one of the top holes of a heading being loaded . he was trying to insert the hose further into the hole by wiggling it . while doing this the hose became caught . as he tried to free the hose he knocked a rock loose which fell and struck his left forearm . the cut required stitches .
employee was loading rock when the 992 g slipped off a rock injuring his right rib cage .
employee was roof bolting when he bent over to pick up a roof bolt he felt a pain in his stomach .
employee stated that he was pulling jumper cables at the 5-a station for his ram car when he felt pain in his lower back . ( this accident was not reported until 9/5/06 ) .
north 3 21 block , cross-cut 4 to 5 , spad 5043 support 6 ft 3/4 inch resin , roof mats , fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around the fall 20 ft long 17 ft wide 6 ft high .
employee knelt down to check oil in 4 wheeler when he felt a pop in his left knee . employee stood upright then knelt down again and felt another pop . he was treated and released at raleigh general with a follow-up on may 21 , 2010 with an orthopedic . he determined that the employee had a torn meniscus and performed a procedure to insert two staples .
employee was bent over attaching a welding cart to the mantrip when his back popped and he felt pain down his right leg . started missing work due to this injury 8/7/06 .  
employee was changing the alternator and the genset rolled over and cut the tips of 2 fingers off ( first two fingers left hand )
employee stated that he jumped off the back of a digger truck . he did not use the steps and safety rails provided .
the employee was moving gas bottles and the bottle slipped and mashed his finger against the frame of the bottle rack .
injured was inside the plant warehouse . warehouse is located between the concentrator and palletizer . injured was cutting a piece of rubber to patch a water hole with a knife . as he was cutting the rubber he cut his 3rd finger left hand .
employee was operating a roof bolter when the pinner steel broke and struck him in the mouth . employee immediately came out and went to vincennes hospital , sustaining a laceration that required 3 stitches . employee returned to work the following workday .
employee was sweeping dirt off catwalk of loader . as he stepped from catwalk to access ladder , his foot slipped , causing him to fall and land on the ground . sudden impact caused a sprain of left   knee . first aid treatment and diagnosis was sufficient until november 21 , 2001. a return visit to doctor was necessary .
employee working on screen when he slipped catching his left index finger in the screen causing the finger to break at the first joint .
employee was standing on the relay bar of shied number 3 , washing the shields when his foot slipped off of the relay bar and as he fell , he landed on his right leg which had folded up under him resulting in a strained knee .
employee was closing gate at the scrape yard and lost footing and fell . employee fell backwards to the ground landing on the left side of body . employee was taken to the emergency room and was given 4 days off .
employee was working off step ladder when material above started falling , employee lost his footing and fell to the ground bending his thumb back .
employee was working in a revolving frame next to a welder and got a foreign body in right eye .
employee was walking to his car in the parking lot , he slipped on ice and fell landing on his butt and arm .
employee was dismounting a personnel carrier underground , while stepping off using 3 point contact , sprained left ankle . no loose rock was found in area of incident .
employee , plant utility operator , was performing part of essential job functions in the area of number 1 kiln dust bin , when an air line broke loose , allowing lime kiln dust ( lime kiln dust ) to spray in his eyes and face . employee is currently still hospitalized .
at approximately   11:20am on 11/30/17 , a fire was discovered at the primary motor control center room . fire department was dispatched and arrived at 11:30am . due to fire involving switchgear and located next to 4160v transformer , firefighting activities were delayed until power could be de-energized . the fire was extinguished at 12:38pm , minutes after electrical services could arrive and disconnect power .
while climbing over a spider , the miner struck his leg on a rebar .
employee was lifting a bottle of oxygen onto a pickup truck .
employee was moving equipment and got hit in forehead with a cable
employee was carrying a 2 ' long 8 x 8 post to the location where he was working ; the post was wet due to recent rainfall in the area and slipped from his hands . he broke his finger when he tried   to catch the post before it hit the ground .
employee lost balance and fell from 6 ' stepladder , bruising back .
miner stated that employee was returning to employee's equipment when employee stepped in a rut and twisted employee's knee . the walking surface was dry .
vibrating grizzly feeder drive belt was slipping , employee climbed into the guarded location area without turning off the motor , slipped , braced himself on a c112 single v belt , that action started the belt again , right hand went through the pulley . no fingers lost , stitches on index finger as well as a burn . the x-ray showed nothing . seeing an orthopedic specialist on 6/15/15 .
during an mine safety and health administration quarterly exam of the hart street elevator a malfunction occurred . they were in the process of testing the overspeed brakes , with the elevator traveling at full speed . when the brakes were set this caused one of the five elevator cables to come out of the sheave on top of the elevator cage .
employee struck bumper of truck with right knee on saturday . went to family doctor on monday . still suffered from numbness and swelling , went back to doctor and was told to take off from work .
lumbosacral strain . incident occurred while employee was stepping from ladder to the ground .
while two mechanics were installing a 4 '' victaulic clamp onto a 4 '' elbow , the mechanic at the bottom of the ladder was hit by the falling clamp when it slip out of the hand of the mechanic on the ladder . the clamp bounced off the ladder and hit the mechanic in the mouth . he was taking to the hospital for stitches .
employee was helping change hammers in the hammer mill and when they were lowering the cover , he slipped and instinctively reached out to catch himself with his left hand . his fingers were caught between the hammermill lid and liner .
employee was helping pull miner cable back as the miner was moving . as he was pulling , a small piece of draw rock fell hitting the back of his leg , injuring his achilles tendon . the doctor ordered an mri and would not release employee to return to work until he saw the results .
employee was walking down a stairway transporting an induction fan . while carrying the fan he felt a strain in his back .
employee was walking around crusher . it had rained earlier . employee stepped into mud , lost his footing and fell hitting his right shoulder on the ground .
employee was pulling roof bolter cable and pulled a muscle in his hip .
the employee was operating a haul truck , when the loader that was loading her inadvertently struck the box of the truck causing the employee's head to strike the side of the cab . the employee was sent to the ho spital and diagnosed with a neck strain .
employee was using a amprobe bolt meter top test the fuses , when he touched one lead to the center section a flash occurred and burned his right forearm .
operating loader and bucket on loader came down fast and when he put bucket level control in locked position , bucket stopped suddenly , causing jarring effect to loader , injuring his back .
employee was using a box blade to cut a hole in a conveyor belt . the blade broke causing his hand to slip . he cut his left arm on the broken blade .
employee was trying to loosen up a bearing on the turbo splitter . pry bar slipped causing the employee to injure shoulder .
ground gave way - fell over 6 ft ledge - suffered a compound fracture at his left elbow
employee was drilling in rock to install roof bolt . piece of draw rock fell , hitting his upper left arm and cutting it . took 17 staples to close wound .
employee was cutting cable and in process cut left middle finger .
a roof fall outby 02 working section was discovered by shift foreman at number 1 entry , 1 block inby spad 5895. area was reported and cribbed and dangered off .
upon medical examination employee was diagnosed that he had sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis ( black lung ) .
frictional ignition occurred on the north 004 section approximately 90 ' in the number 9 entry between block 37 and 38. operator saw an orange ball that started approximately in the center of the cutter head and spread to the right end . ball lasted approximately 3 seconds . there was no pop just some smoke . no charring was found and the investigation determined that bits striking the sandstone caused the incident .
employee was welding and raised his hood to check work , someone near him was grinding and material was blown into employee's eye
employee was putting pull rope on miner conveyor boom , while putting on the pull rope the boom hit employee knocking him down into rib .
number 2 to number 3 entry , spad number 5499 + 5498 , 750 ' outby face to cross-cut , approximately 75' x 18' x 0-7 ' , no injuries , no blockage of vent and smoke free . rerouted from number 3 entry to number 2 entry around fall . no equipment involved , pinned with 5 ' resin bolts + 8 ' to 12 ' cable bolts , will not be cleaned up , breakered , cribbed off and dangered
employee was installing a stainless steel disconnect box ( 18 '' x 48 '' ) at the north end of conveyor bc 460. he was removing the switch gear to position and attach the box to its supports . he removed his   gloves to get a better grip . when he pulled on the gear , his right hand slipped and the hand hit the box cutting the back of the hand below the little finger ( 7 sutures ) .
employee sustained a strain to his left knee that required the use of a knee immobilizer . he was walking from the lime area toward the rail car loading area when his knee popped and kept popping on consecutive steps . he was taken to the plant medical facility via plant ambulance and then referred to his own doctor . he returned to work with the knee immobilizer .
employee was in number 6 entry , 3 rows in 6r cross cut putting up torque tension bolts . a bolt head broke off in the pot . while removing the bolt head a piece of draw rock fell onto his back . x ray were negative .
worker was either breaking castable or welding on elevator buckets when something got in his eye . employee did not know that something was in eye until he awoke to find his right eye matted shut and puffy . worker was taken to eye doctor and given a prescription for eye .
two employee were removing belt structure . as the bottom roller was pulled , the h beam moved causing the rail to fall . employee's hand was pinched between the rail and the bottom roller bracket .
employee was in the panline on the f-27 longwall face hooking the panline up to shield when a rock slid out of the face striking employee on the left lower leg causing right lower leg to strike the eiko track . on 2/28/2018 employee was diagnosed with a non-displaced fracture of the fibula and a partial tear of the lateral collateral ligament in right leg and began missing work .
while knocking brattice , a piece of slag rock rolled and struck employee on right foot .
while tightening traverse cable on dc-505 material fell from roof and lodged in my eye . tried flushing out , but had problems after work with irritation . went to eye doctor on 6-19-03 .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the tilley section number 6 entry near spad # 2801. there is no active face , transfer system only . the fall measured 40 ' long x 20 ' wide x 5 ' high. ventilation was not affected   . all entrances to the fall have been breakered off and will not be rehabilitated .
the mantrip motor that employee was working on slipped off its blocking and mousetrapped his little finger between the frame and blocking .
employee was changing a bearing at the kiln . the wind was blowing quite hard and something got in his eye .
employee's right hand 5th digit became pinched between a conduit bender and a tailgate as employee and another employee attempted to manually unloaded from employee's truck bed .
employee was discarding old troughing roller into metal waste bin when it slipped out of employee's grip and pinched left 4th finger between the roller and the bin . employee received stitches and returned to work on full duty
employee was removing drill steels from on top of a cover on the roof bolter to make repairs to the machine . as he lifted 3 drill steels up and went to slide them towards the back of the machine , he felt a sharp pain in his back .
employee stated after t bar was set , employee walked forward to swing boom outward to install employee's rib bolt . a piece of draw rock 6' long x 3' wide x 2 '' thick fell on employee's back forcing employee to the ground . once employee caught self with employee's hands , the rock slid down employee's back striking employee's right hand causing bruising . employee was transported to doctor for x-rays which were negative for any fractures .
employee was fueling the loader when she stepped down on the berm around the fuel tank , she lost her balance and fell backward , injuring her left wrist .
an employee suffered a fatal heart attack while palletizing stone . ( found injury laying on the ground adjacent to 3 pallet of rock he had been palletizing . unresponsive . cpr was performed ems service were called and continued cpr . the sheriff pronounced the miner dead approximately   12:05 pm mine safety and health administration was notified 12:52 pm ) by miscellaneous mail 4/28/09 number 3 .
while trying to remove the value cap from the air stem from a 651 e scraper tire . the valve stem became loose and was ejected under pressure . sand blasting his right palm and wrist . employee was checking   the air pressure of the tires .
climbed steps onto loader , slipped catching ribs on ladder .
employee was aligning a conveyor truss section when he got his finger caught between the truss section and the handrail .
as injured was working on the shield attempting to pull the panline back . the shield was not firmly against the top due to the height . when panline was pulled , the shield moved forward pinching   his ankle between the panline and shield . taken to hospital , diagnosed with contusion .
employee was driving down a hill at mead zimm pit when he lost control and landed in a ditch . excessive speed was the cause of the accident .
was pulling high voltage cable - slipped and fell against mine floor and pulled back muscle .
employee was handing 6 lb sledge to man on walkway above him . sledge hammer dropped 18 inch to top of employee head .
an employee went to tell victim some information on a railroad car ; while he was speaking , the victim told him he was having chest pains and that his right arm was going numb . victim was in the hydrate department watching the slurry pump at this time . the company is not anticipating this to be a workers compensation claim .
employee was using a number 20 sledge hammer and felt pain after repeated use .
dozer was cleaning the highwall and over extended and material gave out and caused the dozer to slide and over turn one time . the operator was thrown in the floor and suffered five broke vertebrae , two broken ribs , punctured stomach , bruised intestines , cut on the ear , and a broken foot .
while loosening a bolt with an impact wrench the bolt spun and cut employee's left middle finger . finger required stitches . employee was not wear gloves .
employee was walking from number 3 scale to the packhouse pump room when he stepped on a piece of pipe that was partially buried in the ground . when he did so , he twisted his left ankle and knee . employee missed no work until 12-19-01 when he went off for corrective knee surgery .
employee was working on a ladder . he reached for his meter when he and the ladder both fell 8 ' to the ground . he hit his right shoulder on a pipe and then landed on his left shoulder .
employee was cleaning under a screen when 3 rocks fell onto his right shoulder blade .
employee states that while climbing ladder on water truck , he began to experience pain in left shoulder , neck and chest .
while operating the head gate drum of the 16 inch longwall a piece of rock flipped off of the drum and struck the employee on the left hand . causing a fracture on his left hand .
the section is pillaring and the employee had cut some timbers for a breaker line . as he was throwing the timbers out of the scoop bucket onto the rib in the number   1 heading , he pulled a muscle in his lower back . the employee stated he twisted his body when he threw the timber . the timber measured approximately   56 '' long x 4 '' square .
2 south section , roof fall occurred number 4 entry cross-cut 42 in a 3 way intersection 25' wide x 30' long x 18 ' high . a cross-cut was turned just inby a known fault area . area bolted with 8 ' tension rebar full grout bolts .
employee stated he struck his head against a low hanging roof bolt .
employee was shoveling under tailpulley and peace of wire stuck in his thumb left hand .
employee was making a hammer splice in the belt . he hit the splicing tool with a 41 lb shop hammer and a piece of the hammer broke off , striking him on the right arm , above the elbow .
a roof fall occurred in the 2 north panel in number 3 entry in the pillarline between cross-cut number 22 and cross-cut number 23 continuing through the pillarline between cross-cut number 24 and cross-cut number 25 measuring 120 ft . x 19 ft . x 5 ft . this area was mined in august 2004 and supported with 5 ft . fully grouted roof bolts . this fall was caused by an undetected slip .
employee was finishing up pressure washing at the aggregate plant and was winding up the pressure hose . he moved up against the single axle tag along trailer and the jack for the trailer fell off and the ball hitch fell on his foot . the jack was not securely fastened to the trailer properly
employee was pushing 12 '' pipe away from vessel with two other employees - the left thumb was caught between pipe and i beam smashing the left thumb
a roof fall in number 11 cross-cut of number 3 entry . main east measuring 40 ' long x 16 ' wide x 7 ' high .
employee was operating a roof bolter , and as he swung the drill boom over to position it for the next bolt , the drill steel hit the top and flipped out of the drill chuck and struck him on the right index finger , causing a fracture .
employee was operating a small bobcat front end loader . while doing so the employee was having to frequently twist his torso to look over his shoulder to see where he was going as he backed the front end loader . this repeated twisting aggravated a previous shoulder injury . the employee reported the injury 12/08/03 . he was placed on modified duty on 12/15/03 .
employee was tightening impactor bolts with a ratchet . the ratchet slipped a tooth and had no tension when employee pulled on ratchet he hit his elbow on side of impactor fracturing his elbow .
injured was helping another employee work on a pan scraper at heber springs quarry . he was performing normal mechanic duties at the time . he did not report any injury on the day of occurrence . reported late because we tried to deny that the back problems were work related .
was stepping off of the pump barge , slipped , and hand grabbed the rail that had a sign attached to it and the ring on his finger popped off , ripping the finger open .
employee was getting out of a scoop on south a track . the employee slipped and fell catching himself with his left hand resulting in a fractured wrist . the cause of the accident was the employee's lack of awareness to his surroundings . personal protective equipment was not a factor , mining systems may have been a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , miner proficiency may have been a factor .
employee was climbing down the steps of the 928 cat front end loader . his foot slipped off the step . he couldn't hold himself with the handrails . he fell on his left knee to the ground .
employee was shoveling on the slope belt , when he was hit on the elbow by a rock .
while using scoop to hold down on belt drive , the bucket of scoop slid off of belt drive causing the employee to strike his head on the back of the operators deck .
miner was dismounting from cab of drill when the grab bar broke loose and he fell backward approximately 4 ft onto his bottom , back and head . his head struck the ground and causing a laceration and bruise .
while the employee was moving barrels he felt a pop in his right hand .
employee was entering cement silo number 2 through a manhole to perform necessary maintenance when dust circulating inside the silo got in his eyes and he lost footing . his feet slipped off manhole and he pulled his right shoulder when he caught himself . employee saw doctor on 4-12-02 and was placed on light duty .
employee has a reportable hearing loss . employee experienced a reportable injury to his right ear on 10/17/05 .
employee was loading roof bolter when a rock fell from between roof bolts , hitting him in the arm , hip and lower lip requiring 2 sutures to his lower lip .
employee was helping on the continuous miner in the number 6 entry of the 002-0 mobile mining unit , when a piece of draw rock fell from between the side bolt and coal rib and struck him on the right side and hip . the rock was approximately 54 '' long x 30 '' wide x 2 '' -4 '' thick .
the employee was working to clean rock out from the belly pan of a dozer . this task required the employee to lie on a piece of cardboard and move around underneath the equipment . while working on the dozer employee began to feel pain in his right leg . the employee reported he had originally injured his leg on 3-7-04 when he struck his leg on the fender of the 990 loader .
employee clamped piece of sealtite in vice and held loose end with pair of pliers in order to cut with hacksaw . hacksaw bound as he neared end of cut and the blade jumped up and cut his left hand between third and fourth fingers . required 3 stitches to close wound .
employee was walking across the concrete pad at the screening plant when he slipped on a thin layer of wet hectorite clay and fell . his right leg slipped placing a sudden stress on his left leg and resulting in an injury . the diagnosis was a strained quadriceps with minor tears . the leg was put into a rigid leg brace and the employee was temporarily reassigned to restricted duty .
a hydraulic hose on the employee's service truck outrigger got caught . the employee reached in to free the hose . employee began to retract the outrigger to gain slack in the hose and did not realize that a hand was in a pinch point . the outrigger broke several bones in the left hand .
while employee was maneuvering the oil pan out from under a wabco 190 , the pan hung up on a fitting . the pan shifted during the attempt to free it , pinching and fracturing the employee's left middle finger   .
injured employee was struck on the foot while putting a piece of drill steel in the drill carousel .
employee was struck by a roof bolt plate on the left elbow as he was attempting to seat the bolt in the boom . employee suffered a laceration which required ( 3 ) sutures to close the wound .
the operator received notification on 5-28-02 that employee has a sufficient degree of pneumoconiosis to be eligible for part 90 rights .
reportable roof fall 4 blocks inby 1s out switch number 3 entry track at spad number 22944 .
miner operator had gotten off the miner to adjust the vent tube . as he returned to the miner , he slipped , he reached to catch himself grabbing the bolter support and his fingers was caught be tween the jacks , pinching his fingers .
section c-9 . on 11/01/06 , an unintentional roof fall occurred on the 3rd submain return number 7 entry , 63 cross cut . this roof fall was supported with 10 ' and 15 ' point anchor roof bolts . the roof fall measured 25 ' long x 18 ' wide x 10'-15 ' high . the roof fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
on 8/9/2011 the 3rd shift fireboss discovered a fall at 7:25 am . the fall is located between spad number 120 and 121 between the number 6 and number 7 entries . the fall measured approximately 18 ft wide x 40 ft long x 6-7 ft high . this area was bolted with 5 ft fully grouted bolts .
accident report 5/23/01 . loader was pushing truck in loose sand and gravel , bucket slipped off apron   on back of truck striking frame and causing sudden movement . operator's head hit back of glass   of truck .
employee alleged he strained his back when he was adjusting his seat in the rock truck he was operating . he began missing work on 12-8-00 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the new era mine at the 6 north headgate at 3070 north , cross-cut 45 between entry number 2 and entry number 3 ( continuation ) . the fall was of unknown length , approximately   18 ' wide and of unknown thickness . the fall did not affect passage of men . the fall will not be cleaned up .
while pulling oversize rock out of jaw with chain chain slipped off rock while reattaching chain around rock employee lost balance and fell approximately 10 ft head first into the jaw crusher hitting head and shoulder  
employee was walking and stepped on a small rock causing him to turn his ankle .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the number 6 seam 1e tailgate number 4 entry . the fall was approximately   10 ' long , approximately   17 ' wide and approximately   4 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of men . the fall will be cleaned up .
employee was helping take bolts out of flop gate motor when jack swung down and struck him on left middle finger .
employee was attempting to restart number 2 dorrco filter vacuum pump when he turned the start/stop switch to the `` on '' position . employee received an electrical shock and a slight burn to his right forefinger and   thumb . employee is not losing any time and is not on work restrictions .
operator was wearing safety glasses with side shields but small particles managed to get into his left eye . no lost time injury or restricted duty . prescriptions for eye drops only .
the alleged incident occurred on 6-5-03 when the employee was dismounting the cab of his lube truck when his right foot slipped causing him to fall to the ground striking left elbow . employee continued to work regular duties until 7-22-03 at which time he was placed on restricted work activity by a medical specialist .
employee was carrying trash cans out of generator house , he missed a step and fell forward onto the ground . he put his hands down to break the fall and broke left wrist .
employee and coworker had completed splicing a 13.8kv power cable , were cleaning up and discussing what to do next . employee was leaning on the hood of their mantrip when a rock fell from the roof , striking   employee's left elbow causing a laceration that required sutures .
a kink was found in the crabapple hoist rope during regular inspection . the kink was found 16 ft from the hoist car . the hoist was taken out of service and reterminated .
individual and other employee were attempting to jump start truck . he began to walk along the frame to check the connections when he stopped on the battery cover that was laying on the fender . it was   too dark to see where he was stepping . he fell to the ground approximately 4 ft and hurt his ribs laying on the ground .
employee was attempting to open the slide plate on the ground lime screw conveyor . he was pounding on the plate with a hammer when it came loose causing a burst of lime dust . lime dust got into   both eyes . employee immediately flushed his eyes . he did seek medical attention .
unintentional roof fall occurred on 1-a northwest mains , number 4 entry , spad number 3332 , 920 ' outby 005 mobile mining unit , 30 ' long x 19 ' wide x 8 ' high . bolted with 6 ' torque tension and 8 ' point anchor bolts , fall was breakered off .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal at the 5n headgate entry number 1 , 193 south . the fall was of unknown length , unknown width and unknown thickness . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will not be cleaned up . fall # 22z .
an unintentional roof fall measuring ~50 ' long , 18 ' wide , up to 5 ' high in the number   4 belt entry of southwest mains just outby spad 3269. area developed 3/31/96 and was located about 5,800 ' from the nearest   working face . no injuries , disruption in ventilation or passage of men affected by the fall .
employee was a passenger in a mantrip traveling to the c-2 longwall panel . when the mantrip arrived at the 8 left track switch it derailed and it landed on the mine floor . the impact caused a sudden pain in his neck and back . he is scheduled to begin a series of physical therapy treatments for this injury .
employee had placed a piece of ar plate steel onto the tipple to be welded in and had placed another plate on it to hold it in place and the piece fell off striking the employee on the foot , behind the steel toe protection . the blow shattered the little toe on his left foot .
employee was mixing cement mortar to use for the new installation of the outbound truck seal for the napa quarry . a square end margin trowel was being used as a mixing tool . while mixing the mortar with his left hand the employee felt pain in his left wrist that radiated up to his elbow . the injury was diagnosed a left wrist strain on 7/14/06 and employee was placed a modified duty
employee was holding clasp on cable while another was driving a wedge out . the wedge and cable hit employee on right foot , severely bruising it .
employee was walking into work from parking lot and tripped on uneven pavement , falling to knees , bracing with left arm . employee iced knees and shoulder for a couple of weeks . on 11/10/17 , employee went to urgent care clinic , was referred for therapy on shoulder and retractions . notified company 11/13/17 . currently ongoing .
the employee was performing maintenance on the hydraulic system of the water truck . while tightening a fitting on the tank , his wrench slipped and he struck his right hand and wrist on the tank frame   .
working pulling pushing gripping , began exhibiting symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome .
employee hit himself on the left thumb with a hammer while tightening bolts .
employee was getting compression cylinders out of the fog room . he lifted the cylinder at an awkward angle and strained back .
employee was operating a miner when he was struck on right shoulder by a rib roll .
employee stated he jammed his neck when descending fixed ladder lid shut hitting his hard hat
making splice on 3i belt , as he was pulling on utility knife to cut belt , it slipped out of belt and cut right knee . needed sutures to close cut .
a non injury roof fall was located on the pre-shift examination . the fall was 24 ' long 201 wide and 0-4' thick .
employee was standing in track entry directing the lo-trac operator as operator was picking up cable bolts and when the lo-trac turned , it accidentally pushed track rail into the left ankle of the employee standing causing fracture to ankle .
cleaning chunks of ammonium nitrate out of the hopper on a repump unit , cut right arm and hand on the edges of the hopper .
this accident did not happen on the mine site . contributing factors were : rough walking surface ( grating ) worker stumbled on grating while descending rail car . injuries : 3 fractures on right foot . involved rail car nahx 60563
employee was working with other employee to install handrails at the construction site . he attempted to move a handrail without assistance and strained his back . employee did not seek medical attention until 8 august 03
while attempting to open top door of rail car , employee strained back . door may have been frozen to car .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the number 1 section at the number 11 entry at spad # 4077. the fall measured 20 ft by 20 ft by 10 ft .
mechanic broke left middle finger tip when the wind caught the door of a jlg man lift slamming it on the finger tip . mechanic's hand was placed on the hinge side of the door frame and the mechanic was wearing leather work gloves .
employee was standing against tool shed when four wheeler rolled forward hitting his leg causing a laceration that required stitches .
employee was putting up a bolt . his foot slipped and he grabbed for something to keep him from falling . he got his hand on the drill pot as it went up . the pot pushed his hand against the roof and cut   off his right index finger .
driving personnel carrier and drove over gob on ribline and steering wheel spun causing his left arm to twist hurting his left elbow .
employee was helping put in bottom idler , picked up belt and was holding idler up with pipe when he felt a burning in stomach , then a knot popped out around his navel .
employee strained his right elbow while installing pipe at plant 2 tube mill building .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia north portal on the main north travelway , cross-cut # 31. the fall was approximately 20 ' long , approximately 18 ' wide and approximately 10 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 21t
employee was cutting a bolt off a chain with a torch . he then grabbed the hot chain with his left hand he was not using gloves ( which are provided ) . he suffered burns to the palm and fingers of his hand
while picking up a 50 lb bag of powdered chemical , the employee felt something pop in his wrist .
with a hand shovel , and not wearing gloves , employee scouped up a shovel full and swung forward and with his bare right hand hit a piece of metal , slicing the skin requiring 5 stitches .
employees were changing cutting edges on wa500 komatsu. they were loosening bolts with a 1 inch air gun . the bolts started turning all the way . the injured employee went to push the bolt in place with his hand and other employee hit the gun and the bolt started spinning and cut his index finger on his left hand . doctor applied stitches to finger .
employee was tightening segment bolts on a dozer sprocket and the socket adapter broke causing the employee to strike his arm on the dozer frame . the employee reported the incident and finally asked to see a doctor in august . he finally got a doctor's appointment in september and the mri showed a rotator cuff tear and was reported to the mine on september 15 .
employee was assisting another employee in removing a dust collector bag from 510 dc on the 3rd floor from east to west . as employee was pulling to remove the inner screen , his right hand slipped causing his right   elbow to strike the inner door latch .
employee was checking gallons in tank of gasoline outside   while climbing down employee fell and scraped below right knee . employee fell on right leg causing bruising and swelling on right leg . transported self to hospital not a serious accident .
employee was using 385 excavator to pull down material from a 50 ft bench . a single 5-6 ton boulder which had been contained within the face of the material above , toppled off the top while the operator was swinging the excavator . the rock struck the tracks first , then upward into the front end of the cab . case just became reportable when employee needed to seek physical therapy .
employee and two others were working in the tunnel in the quarry trying to raid the gate for the tail-pulley . when it became unstuck , employee's hand got stuck between the gate and the wall . the other two rushed to help free employee's hand using a piece of 2 x 4 wood to pry employee's hand out . it took about 3 minutes to free employee's right hand ; employee's thumb was numb .
a roof fall occurred in the number 9 seam in the 2 main north at cross-cut number 13 in the pillar line between number 5 and number 6 entries . the fall measured approximately 30' x 18' x 6 ' . the area was supported with 6 ' tension rebar bolts .
while coming around a corner on his shuttle car his slack cable became stuck on his car . the employee stopped and backed up a little while using his foot to unhook the cable and he accidentally coasted forward catching his left hand between the car and the corner of rib .
employee was assisting in installing a final drive on a hitachi 1800 backhoe when he mashed his left thumb .
while putting shrink wrapped bags on pallets , he got sand in his left eye .
employee was attending annual safety retraining . during lunch break , two employees were `` horse playing '' . employee attempted to pick up another employee and throw him over his shoulder . both employees fell to the ground , causing employee to dislocate his hip .
employee missed the step while walking up the stairs into the offices . employee injured shoulder but did not seek medical treatment until 2/4/2013 . employee was placed on restricted duty .
unplanned roof fall occurred in 2nd south east submains , cross-cut 90 , entry number 3 , ( 26+20 ) . the fall was on a pump discharge line and pump power cable . it was approximately   : 20 ' long x 17 ' wide x greater than 6 ' .
employee was assisting in tramming feeder off tailpiece . feeder cable fell and struck employee .
lowering grout pan ( empty ) back into the floor of quarry . a piece of lift hole steel rod was laying near the spot where the pan was going to sit in the rock . the pan sat on one end of the steel   rod . the other end of the rod came up and hit ledge man on his right upper arm .
operating dozer , ripping material . when backing up , went over rock with dozer and jarred back . original electronic document number 253218
employee was cutting a right hand cross-cut in number 7 entry at the time of this incident . he stated that the entry had been slabbed and bolted and he was in the process of making the 2nd cut . a rock measuring   18 ' x 25 ' x 4 '' thick fell from between the roof bolts and struck employee on the calf muscle of his right leg this caused a deep contusion to his leg muscle .
employee was rock dusting on top of overcast , coming down stepped in hole hitting shin on water fittings .
when employee was done loading a pebble truck , he was walking to the miracle plant and slipped on the ice , resulting in pulling a groin muscle .
was cleaning under pc-1 conveyer . rock fell from feed and struck his back . company has installed roof over area to protect employees when cleaning area .
individual was attempting to pull a mantrip to motor barn with another mantrip . the mantrip being towed derailed in a curve and landed on his right foot resulting in fractures . individual was communicating with operator of the other mantrip while standing beside the mantrip .
the employee was using a hammer to remove a wedge bolt on a crusher . the hammer struck the side of the crusher moving the direction of travel hitting his left wrist . the employee did not seek medical treatment until 8/3/04 . the diagnosis was a contusion to the wrist , no modified duty , but he received a prescription for swelling .
ignition - occurred on the number   12 section as the continuous miner was cutting bottom in the number   2 face curtain side , when a bleeder in the mine floor was ignited . the flame lasted 30 seconds or less and was extinguished with water from wash down hose .
on 6/7/2016 a roof fall was discovered in an area of the mine that is not normally traveled . the fall was located on the 2a west parallel submains at break 15 in a cross-cut between the number 6 and 7 entry . the fall area was breakered off .
employee was pulling screens out from under the sideboards , when he felt a strain in his right arm . reportable lost time injury as of 5/27/08 .
employee was running the shearer when a rock came down between jacks and hit his finger , cutting it on the panline .
while unloading truck noticed dockboard screw was out of place and wedged under dockboard . remove screw and dockboard mashed finger .
employee was blowing off the lime that was on top of an environmental tarp of a loaded truck . when he started blowing the lime off the wind started blowing and blew the lime back into his face and the lime came in behind his safety glasses and got into his eye .
while walking down steps at draw of tunnel employee caught his foot between steps causing him to fall forward , breaking foot bone .
employee received a .18 % permanent disability award for noise induced hearing loss .
employee was operating a track dozer , pushing overburden to an electric shovel , while in reverse motion , the employee hit a large rock that jolted him as his dozer went over it .
employee states she was sweeping floor and stepped backwards out of entrance , causing her to twist ankle due to difference in elevation . placed on restricted duty .
a roof fall was discovered in cross-cut 39 , between entries 1 and 2 in the lw-304 tailgate . this fall is an extension of one that occurred on 6/05/09 . the fall was rib to rib , measuring approximately 19 ft wide by 9 ft high. the length could not be determined as it closed off access to this cross-cut . the next isolation stopping was installed to remove this from the active workings .
employee was swinging a sledge hammer at a steel wedge . the hammer glanced off causing the employee to cut his left hand on the steel wedge .
employee has been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome of the left wrist . employee began missing work on 8/28/08 for surgery .
a fall of the roof occurred in the south east life of mine mains c at cross-cut 426 in the number 4 entry . ventilation , men nor equipment were involved .
dismounting haulage truck access ladder at end of shift and slipped on the last step , hyperextending left knee . after several weeks of little improvement in condition , physical therapy was prescribed   by physician .
employee stated he removed belt framing from belt trailer . he dropped a piece of belt framing on top of his right foot causing swelling and appearance of a contusion to employee's entire foot . started missing work on 3/20/08 , returned to work on 3/25/08 .
employee was working with his crew to repair the main clinker elevator . sometime while using a 3-ton chain hoist . he apparently strained his upper back . between the shoulder blades . he had been reaching   overhead and pulling hard . the incident occurred on 10-28-00. the employee did not see a doctor until 11-6-00 and missed his first shift of work on 11-8-00 .
carrying megavac hose to roof bolter and felt pain in back .
lifting one end of a 20 ' long joint of pipe from the mine floor on to a rack on the fork scoop . while lifting the end of the pipe struck the scoop fender causing the pipe to fall and injured pulled   his right bicep muscle when he tried to catch the falling pipe .
employee felt pain in lower back after picking up a piece of belt structure in supply yard . employee informed me on 4/7/05 that he started missing work on 4/1/05 .
the injured employee had relocated his keyboard to the top of his desk in his office . the use of his keyboard in this position resulted in his wrist being placed on the edge of his desk during data entry . the awkward position caused irritation to the tendons in his right wrist and forearm .
while going to muck a pile , the loader entered the pile and struck a large object , possibly a ledge or a boulder . this jarred the fell and the impact caused the operator to experience significant pain in the back .
employee was cleaning up loose coal in front of tail piece , moving coal to number 1 entry to dump . when he changed direction of travel returning to tailpiece , he hit a rock , pushing him into top .
at 1700 hours on 07/19/2011 a roof fall occurred at cross-cut number 106 of the headgate unit in number 3 entry in the intersection . mobile mining unit - 001 unit . the fall is about 18 foot by 18 and 10 foot high in the intersection .
employee got dust in his eyes while air arcing .
while in the process of removing a wedged bag from the packer line employee picked up the bag and felt a pop in his left upper arm . he has torn his bicep .
restacking 100 lb bags of pool mix from one defective pallet to a good pallet . picked up a bag and felt a sharp pain on his lower back .
employee was changing a bearing on a belt head roller , when he pinched his left index finger while manually rolling a chain sprocket .
supervisor was trying to pull belt over while pulling on it with a rope and sheave . he got his fingers in the sheave wheel . cause of this injury was awareness and an unsafe act . compliance with rules/regulations   was a factor ; personal safety equipment was a factor ; miner proficiency and attitude was a factor ; mining systems is a factor .
unintentional fall of the mine roof located in the number 3 entry at cross-cut 98 on the 9 left panel at spad # 202. the fall is 19 ft wide , 10 ft high and 90 ft long and is 550 ft from the working section .
employee faxed us a form from his doctor ( bogue chiropractic ) . this was the first we heard of the injury . he was claiming this was from a prior injury and it has been decided as a new injury to his back resulting from shoveling .
employee alleges to have injured his back underground . he doesn't know how or when . management was notified on 8/9/02 of this alleged injury .
employee was helping the miner change places . he was lifting the miner cable and placing it against the rib out of the haulway when he hurt his shoulder and arm . he didn't miss any work until december 21 , 2004 when he went to see the doctor .
on 12/21/00 employee slipped on patch of ice and snow while walking on side of haul truck . employee did not wish to seek medical attention at that time . on 1/3/01 employee went to chiropractor for medical attention wit hout our knowledge
while reaching for a piece of steel employee slipped and caught himself with his left arm , straining his left shoulder . employee was seen at hospital and medication was prescribed for shoulder/muscle strain and spasm . reporting due to medical treatment modified duty and prescription medications .
while boarding the drill employee heard and felt a pop from his left knee . on october 20th an mri revealed a torn medial collateral ligament and medial meniscus .
employee was checking belt rollers along the south 60 belt . he got too close to a roller and caught his left thumb between the top roller and belt . no damage to mining equipment or operations . the employee   suffered a distal fracture to his left thumb and lost his fingernail .
a roof fall occurred one break out by spad 497. the fall measured 20 ' wide 20 ' long and 5 ' thick .
employee was unplugging coal auger and couldn't reach all the plugged material . added air to it and a burst of fire burned employee on face . employee was prescribed ointment for 1st degree burns thus constituting mine safety and health administration reportability .
on 9/1/06 , employee was using a sledge hammer to drive a center pin on an equalizer bar on number 621 d11r . a small sliver of the pin broke off and entered employee's right arm .
employee was clearing brick sand chute and accidentally ran his thumb over a sharp piece of steel . thumb was cut and required two stitches
employee was hammering a tooth on an excavator bucket when a piece of metal broke off and became airborne , striking employee resulting in a minor laceration to the abdomen approximately 3/8 '' in length
employee was sitting on the rib eating his lunch , a piece of coal blew out hitting his right   hand .
employee was walking down steep grade , slipped and fell on right hand/wrist area .
employee was on employee's grease truck , pumping grease in barrels . employee had 3 point contact but lost employee's grip with right hand , causing employee to fall from 4th step , landing on frozen ground . employee's right shoulder was injured , with bruising and swelling . doctor has employee off work .
the employee stated was loading bolt supplies when employee felt pain in groin . the employee later sought medical attention and was diagnosed with a hernia . the incident became a lost time injury on 7/15/2016 .
while cleaning inside the prep plant elevator shaft , the employee was struck on top of his head by a falling object ( 2 '' victaulic coupler ) that was used in the area to secure the elevator door in the open position .
employee was chipping concrete from a compressor motor control center wall when a foreign object struck and entered eye just above safety glasses . employee did not report incident until following morning when he experienced irritation and redness .
employee had attached chain being used to pull power cable to his seat in the bus . the seat came loose throwing him into the dash .
shaft hoist developed a noise in the gear reduced area . we decided to shut the hoist down to find the cause . at start of shift next day the master mech investigated and found the brake was making   the noise . the brake was changed out and it was operational by 11 am 3-22-02 .
employee was performing maintenance duties welding in a coal handling chute . he had raised his welding hood to clean slag from a weld . while doing this , a piece of slag entered his eye under his safety   glasses .
a piece of rock fell from the rib and hit employee on the left ankle . he has a fractured ankle and is working at a restricted duty status .
employee was removing a chain link , he struck the pin with a hammer and it shipped . a small piece struck him in the left forearm . required one stitch .
employee was lifting a 300 gallon tank with a truck mounted crane . the tank was lifted to clean some stones from under the tank . injured reached under the tank while it was being lifted when the   chain on the tank slipped dropping it on his his hand . it broke the tip of his ring finger and cut his little finger .  
worker was cutting on an uneven surface , he slipped and the torch crossed over his gloved hand and as a result he received a burn to his hand .
the employee was called to jump start a grader , the employee went to open engine cabinet door . the door sprung open striking the employee in the mouth and causing a chip in the employee's front two teeth .
employee and coworkers were in the process of cleaning rock off of the longwall head drive . member was lying on his belly with upper body positioned under the number 2 longwall shield . a rock approximately 8 '' x 6 '' x 1/2 '' fell off the shield tips striking his right calf . he walked to the mantrip and was brought to the surface . he was taken to boone memorial . he was diagnosed with a deep contusion to right calf .
climbing down ladder on cat 771d ( equipment number 313 ) , slipped and banged up knee on the steel ladder .
using high power water gun ( woma 400 psi ) to remove material buildup on number 3 tower slope . employee twisted to straighten woma gun hose ; slipped and fell on wet dust covering deck .
employee was installing a bolt when a piece of draw rock fell from the top and hit him on the left arm . he received 9 stitches .
employee states that while lifting a heavy wrench he noticed some stiffness and soreness developing in his lower back .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred in the south east main return , entry number 7 cross-cut 32+20 . the cause of the roof fall was laminated and unconsolidated shale above the anchorage point . the area had 6 ' fully grouted rebar roof bolts installed for roof support .
injured was crossing over a dolly tongue when his boot got caught on the dolly tongue . he fell forward landing on his knee and catching himself with his hands . the fall caused him to twist or jerk his back .
injured was bent over near the ground when some cap rock fell near last row of bolts and caused the ventilation tubing to fall and strike injured on the hard hat . no reportable treatment rendered   until 6-18-01 . ( injury became reportable on 6-18-01 when physical therapy started ) .
employee was holding the lid of a powder box open on a mobile powder truck . another employee in the man basket swung the basket to the side pinching the injured employees left hand between the boom and the door of the powder box . there was 14 sutures placed in the laceration and he was released full duty .
running a burner on a granite bench and the bench slid down 20 ' taking equipment and employee .
employee was standing on old conveyor belt when the belt came apart and employee fell to floor . he was taken to ellington emergency room on 7-8-07 and released to return to work . he was taken to company doctor for follow-up on 7-9-07 where he was prescribed pain medication   and muscle relaxer . he continued to complain of pain and was taken back to company doctor on 7-10-07 where additional x-rays were taken . employee was released to full duty .
employee states `` could only use right hand to pull himself up onto the truck . put right foot in step on fuel tank , reached up and grabbed bar . as he was pulling himself up , his foot slipped and his whole body shifted to the right and he fell across the fuel tank .
employee cut his leg using a chainsaw
injured was exiting the mantrip and lost his balance and fell to the ground , twisting his right ankle . he was taken to hospital emergency room where he was examined , x-rayed and referred to our   company doctor and put on restricted duty from work . the xrays were negative and no lost time . on 10-15-02 he was seen by our company doctor and was released to return to work with no restrictions
employee was on top of quicklime storage/loadout to measure tanks , he slipped on ice but caught himself avoiding a fall . employee apparently wrenched his back during this process and missed work on 2/28/03 . employee returned to work on monday 3/3/03 on light duty . note : employee broke his back several years ago while in marine corp .
employee was walking around the longwall drive area slipped and fell on right arm causing fracture .
while preparing to take ag-5 out for a turnaround , employee was reaming out ag-5 suction with a maul and reamer . as he hit the reamer with the maul , a piece of metal chip flew off and struck him in the left thigh , where it lodged . the metal was not visible but he had a 1 '' laceration .
mine foreman was making fireboss run at approximately 4:30 am discovered roof fall in number 3 entry measuring 10 ft wide x 20 ft long x 5 ft thick . 40 ft inby spad 160. this area was bolted with 4 ft resin bolts . fall will be cleaned up and rebolted with 6 ft bolts and any additional support .
employee said he had put ram battery on charge and when he jerked on battery lid his back started hurting , he worked until 11/30/05 , went to doctor .
employee was exiting the cab of left-hand drive to unload stopping pans from the bucket when he stepped on a rock and twisted his ankle . 7000-1 is being done due to part 50 audit .
going through stopping located at 306-307 in the 9 south number 2 entry and air pressure closed the door on employee's foot . when employee got foot out , employee fell down and stoved wrist on the floor trying to catch self , resulting in a possible fracture . no problems with mining methods , personal protective equipment , training or compliance issues .
employee's cleaning up at the end of shift , tools were placed in box and lowered to ground floor of mill bldg with overhead hoist . hoist operator   was raising the hook so the hoist could be parked . employee's gathered at the box , hoist did not stop and cable broke , block and hook fell striking employee on hard hat . possible skull fracture .
employee was walking when he tripped over a cable causing him to fall on his left hand ( thumb ) .
employee slipped on wet board on forms , and fell on his side on a timber laying on the ground .
hand slipped on painted surface of a metal plate as he was moving it to a cutting stand .
the continuous miner was being used to clean up a rock fall . the injured was beside the machine operator when a piece of rock rolled from the rib and struck him . injuries included fractured ribs   , a collapsed lung , and 2 fractured vertebrae .
2 employee were conducting normal maintenance , replacing screens , greasing and servicing which includes a lot of manual labor . they did nothing outside of the normal practices . these activities was too strenuous for one and he was advised to take time off in order to rest his back muscles .
employee was sampling sacks of material with a thief sampler . when he turned the thief shut . the skin on his left index finger got caught in the pinch point of one of the openings of the thief which resulted in a hunk of skin being cut off .
employee was pinning in number 1 entry , the canopy of the bolter hit the rib . after placing the first pin employee was drilling employee's second hole and the drill steel stopped up , the employee went to the middle of the bolter to retrieve a new drill steel , when a rock from the rib fell down , an hit the wire mesh that was leaned up next to the rib and hit employee in the back of the right leg .
a rock fall was discovered in the # entry during the pre-shift examination ; fall didn't affect miners , ventilation nor equipment . fall approximately 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7 ' high ; area has been dangered and cribbed off , also timbers have been
restricted duty . strained shoulders lifting injured employee from truck bed to stretcher . he had surgery 10-9-00 at which time he went on restricted duty .
employee was working in the alkali baghouse and the bypass dust mixed with the sweat on his wrists causing skin irritation resulting in chemical burns .
employee reported accident on 10/15/02 and did not complain of pain until 11/5 . he became a lost time as of 11/6 . he was adding additional 100 ' of discharge hose to a 8 '' water pump . as he was pulling out hose it became caught on a rock . he felt pain in his back .
employee suffered a same level fall , he tried to extend arms to brace against fall . his injury was bilateral elbow fractures . employee expected to have surgery monday november 17 , 2008 .
employee fell through the floor of an underpass , causing blocks to fall on his head .
employee alleges that while cleaning off a roof bolt trailer in surface yard , he was cleaning bed of trailer using cardboard box , scraping muck , trash etc . the wind blew dust of muck back into face . accident was not reported until 2/26/00 . has been under investigation till now .
employee was pulling screen out of shaker when he felt pain in lower back .
employee was on an 8-foot step ladder replacing v-belts for the vertical shaft impactor , when stepping off ladder onto the ground , employee states he twisted his right knee and ankle stepping on loose 3 '' rock . the employee sought medical attention on 9/4/15 diagnosed with a knee/ankle strain and given restrictions .
while roof bolting in 3rd north development section which has a height of 56 inches operator strained low back muscle while installing roof bolts .
employee was pulling a roofbolt from the tray when his right little finger became caught between the roofbolt and the drill pot. medical treatment injury .
2 employees were pulling torches along side of continuous miner . miner was being moved by another employee . miner knocked injured employee into the rib . broke his left rib .
while repairing a hydraulic cylinder with a spanner wrench , the wrench slipped and he smashed the end of his left middle finger causing a fracture on the tip .
the dawes elevator failed to operate at 2:45 pm on 09/09/2016 due to a buffer switch being grounded . they got the issue fixed at 4:55 pm and it started working again . there were no employees on the elevator when this incident occurred .
this incident did not involve a miner . a private vehicle traveling north on williams street left the roadway striking a section of fence and the main gate at the entrance to thornton quarry . the driver sustained injuries and was transported by ambulance to christ hospital . the thornton illinois police department is handling the investigation .
a roof fall occurred in the 3rd main north , 68 cross-cut , intersection , number 4 entry . the fall measures approximately 18 feet wide , 30 feet long , and 10 ' thick . primary roof support   in this area is 4 foot fully grouted resin bolts .
employee was tightening bridge pin bolts with ratchet . while pulling on the ratchet he dislocated his shoulder . this was approximately   the 3rd time he has had trouble with his shoulder . november 7th was the day he went off work . november 7th was the 1st day of work he missed .
a roof fall has occurred in l-main @ spad 30+79 ( abandoned l-3 header hole area ) . the fall is approx . 15 ' wide x 55 ' long x 6 ' high .
while carrying a box of screws the left foot got through a hole and he suffered a cut . started rest at home by state insurance policy recommendation on 10 november 2005. worked on until 9 november 2005 .
while bolting up a steel frame on ground , fork lift operator hit the frame with a outrigger while swinging around to unload trailer . the steel frame moved forward hit worker behind both ankles . he was taken to doctor xray : tiny avulsion fracture off the dorsum of left navicular the right ankle showed no evidence of fracture . he was put in a boot and given light duty restriction .
employee was using a hilti caulking gun to dispense epoxy into loose bolts . employee failed to puncture the seal on end of tube and pumped pressure into the tube . when nothing came out , employee turned tube to look inside the end , the seal burst shooting epoxy onto safety glasses and into employees eye .
employee was removing an equipment belly pan from the forks of a forklift . material slipped and pinched hand between floor and belly pan .
a roof fall in the 12 west panel number 7 cross-cut number 5 entry measuring 50 ' by 2 ' by 6 ' . the area was mined in november 2003 and supported with 6 ' tension rebar roof bolts .
person was changing sieve screen with two other persons . when he lifted the screen over a handrail to get it into the screen deck , he felt a pain in left shoulder .
while cleaning a suction hose on the roof bolter , the employee lacerated his thumb on a piece of metal at the hose connection . the employee received 7 stitches in his thumb .
while dropping rail cars the individual had to dismount the moving cars to get to another car to set the brake . the area was snowy and icy and when he dismounted he slipped and fell on his knee   causing a sprain .
employee was moving a oil barrel by rolling it when employee felt instant pain in employee's right shoulder .
2 employees were performing routine maintenance on the komatsu pc300 rock hammer . they were replacing a section of the hydraulic hose from the boom to the hammer . injured was loosening the nut on the hammer end and coworker was using his pocket knife to cut tie straps which were holding a smaller hose to the one they were replacing . he cut a strap and knife hit employee in lower right leg .
employee stated that employee was attempting to stand up after placing crib blocks under the section feeder and felt a pain in the left knee .
employee was filling blending hopper and thought the belt that was feeding the hopper was plugging up . he pulled the lid back off of the belt and reached in to grab a chunk of material when bolt caught finger and pulled it into hold down roller .
while working on 5710 loader , the employee stumbled over a timber that was laying on the ground as employee was walking around the loader and twisted right ankle .
employee removing a roller on belt line when left ring finger was caught between the end of the roller and the roller frame causing an avulsion injury to the tip of the finger .
employee was attempting to cross a moving belt using a belt crossover and slipped causing him to fall onto the belt . chief electrician quickly turned the belt off allowing employee to remove himself from the belt . employee suffered three cracked ribs and a fracture to his right shoulder blade . prescribed treatment was rest and immobilization .
employee was driving a bushing pin into place to lock down belt structure . the supervisor was passing by about 45 ' away when he got a piece of dirt in his eye . he worked the rest of the shift after flushing   eye . he thought he got it out but still hurt . went home and woke at 3:30 am with severe eye pain . after being examined by doctor , went to hospital to have small piece of steel removed
employee was pushing a mantrip that was stuck with his coal hauler , as he was pushing he pulled himself up by grabbing his canopy in dams so leg hit his steering lever causing his hauler to pinch into ribbing smashing his right hand .
member was making a belt splice on tuesday november 28. he was cutting the belt with a standard utility knife . he had his left hand on the belt rail while he was cutting the belt . the knife slipped off the belt cutting the member's left thumb . he was transported to the hospital by ambulance . he received 5 stitches and was released for work .
employee was hauling to the number 1 entry . employee was adjusting curtain . employee claims back was hurting . this 7000-1 is being reported due to the ten day time frame . this 7000-1 could possibly be amended or rescinded at a later date due to the lack of information at the time the 7000-1 is being reported . investigation is still ongoing and medical documentation is being gathered .
a roof fall was found in a 4-way intersection at 8+40 room 3 in 4rms mobile mining unit 003. the fall was in examiner travelway in a set of worked out return rooms . the fall was 20' wide x 20' long x 10' high . area was mined june 15 , 2000 and had been bolted with 8' full resin pins . no injury or property loss resulted . there are no plans to clean fall . travelway was rerouted .
employee was working in water that apparently had alkali in it : it burned his hand and arm
employee was holding onto an 80 lb plate and another employee had another 80 lb plate . the other employee's plate slipped so the employee put hand out to prevent the plate from falling on employee's foot . as a result , the employee hurt right elbow up to the shoulder : muscle/tendon .
employee was cutting notches in skirtboard rubber so it could be fastened on the belt . employee had left hand on the skirtboard rubber and cutting towards that hand when the knife slipped out of the rubber cutting glove and thumb .
electrician positioned self in a manner that allowed a 10 lb inspection door to indirectly fall on left hand causing a laceration to index finger and a bruise to thumb . laceration required stitches .
unintentional roof fall location : south mains , number 6 entry , spad 7696 height - ? width - 16 ' length - 70 ' support - 5 ' resin and truss bolts area is entries of old intake which is not traveled regularly
employee fell tripped on crack in concrete slab injuring his left ankle . employee has preexisting condition toward severe damage to both ankles . still under internal investigation .
employee was walking along road in process area and was struck by a golf cart coming around a corner .
employee injured his right knee while jumping from a concrete block to the ground . he sought medical attention on 4/25/12 and was placed on restricted duty . this incident is being reporting within 10 days of employee seeking medical attention .
employee had been lifting 5 gal containers with antifoam over his head into a sump when he strained left side , neck and shoulder area .
employee was trying to take a belt off motor . he thought the motor was stopping . when the belt popped off , the motor gained momentum throwing the pry bar into employee's face causing a laceration . he received 20 stitches .
employee was exiting number 3 loadout system , going down stairs , slipped on step and hit left shoulder on railing .
the employee was riding a rail car when the car came to a stop . the employee jumped off and sprained his left ankle . the reason the report was not done at that time was that it was not viewed as receiving medical treatment beyond first aid . after further investigation it was determined that , it was recordable .
a roof fall in cross cut between number 4 and number 5 entry on the 2nd south travel way at tag marker 5 + 60. fall length 100 ft by 18 ' wide by 15 ft high area was bolted with 12 ft long bolts . this fall will be cleaned up and rebolted
the employee has been diagnosed with occupational hearing loss .
on 5-27-16 , employee was ascending the access ladder to a haul truck when employee struck right knee on the ladder rung . reported accident on 5-31-16 , was seen by physician and placed on restricted duty . follow-up appointment . 6-3-16 cleared employee for return to work with no restrictions .
individual was participating in a mine rescue team competition/training at hutchinson , kansas . due to extended exposure to midday sun during the competition/training , the individual sustained a blistering sunburn to the back of his neck . he laid off work to avoid breaking the blisters .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee on 5/21/2018 .
as employee was removing a metal plate from the side opening of an air separator , his hand hold slipped , allowing corner of door to strike his leg .
the employee had a minor accident on 3/18/02 when he slipped and fell on the ice in the parking lot of the mill . he sprained his right   ankle ; he did not receive any medical attention until december when his condition worsened . on 12/16/02 the employee underwent minor surgery to repair his injuries , therefore making it reportable and a lost time accident .
minor burn to left little finger - issued prescription
employee was crossing over belt using belt crossover when his foots slipped and he injured his right leg .
lowering set of steps with crane - load moved quickly , employee grabbed at cable pulling something in his neck .
employee was descending boarding ladder to complete pre-shift walk around of haul truck . he stepped on small rock and rolled his ankle and strained his back .
employee was on a ladder approximately 3 ' above ground . maintenance work was being performed on a gravel chute . the employee reached out and the ladder shifted . in the process of stabilizing the ladder   and himself the employee strained his lower back . the employee completed his shift and the back stiffened up overnight !
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the wyoming number 2 mine , 1 break outby spad number 1971 , in the number 4 entry , that measured 7 ' high x 20 ' wide x 25 ' long . no injuries were reported . the area was developed on 12/1/2011 .
had roof fall in intersection 18 ' x 40' at spad number 4460 in intake outby section due to undetected faulty area . didn't block intake . had 2 other intake entries .
did not return for 30 day retest . received disc from audiologist with final results on 3/21/2014 . had a 10 db average shift with threshold above 25 db
employee was bolting and mistakingly allowed the drill pod to come down on his left index and middle fingers , bruising and causing pain . he received first aid and medical treatment .
employee was walking around a coiled water hose and tripped over it . he then fell to the floor landing on his left hip , resulting in a ruptured disc in his lower back . this injury required surgery on 3/9/07 .
solenoid sticking on one of the brakes of main hoist . when the computer senses too little or too much brake pressure , or an abnormality it sets all the brakes , until a system check is complete in the logic . call made to mine safety and health administration 10:19am . hoist returned to service approximately 10:40am . parts ordered for repairs .
a fall of the roof occurred on number 2 unit , 1st northwest submains , number 5 entry cross cut 42 inby spad number 40064 10 : the fall was 120' long 19.5 ' wide , and 5.5 ' high . no equipment , person or ventilation were affected .
employee stated that he was coming down the steps at the parts trailer . the boot on his right foot got caught on the second step , causing him to fall forward toward the ground . he landed on his   left foot causing it to creel under resulting in fracture above the ankle on his left foot . reportable but no lost time incurred .
trespasser was riding a dirt bike on a county road under construction in a reclamation area . he hit hole and lost control of his bike . he flagged employees driving by who called for an ambulance   who called for lifeflight because of a possible head injury . he had been previously warned not to ride across mine property . he would ride around gates and over berms on closed roads .
employee was checking fluid levels when he slipped on the back of a 235 cat track hoe , bruising right shin and knee .
employee and coworker were in 5 west to 6 hand scaling roof . they were approximately 60 ' in the air near the roof . they had sounded the roof previously and it sounded solid . employee was reaching to scale a rock about 4 ' from basket when the rock above him fell . four rocks fell , some striking him , ranging from 100 to 500 lbs . coworker was not hit by any rock .
the employee was carrying a belt stand with another employee in preparation for changing out a bad bottom roller . the employee set his end down and as the other end was being lowered the running belt caught the edge of the stand and knocked him to the ground and struck him in the left arm and leg . injury was diagnosed as a severe contusion to the bicep tendon .
he was installing roof bolt . he put bolt in hole and rotated with up pressure . when he let head down , bolt and plate came back down also . he had not put glue in hole . he removed bolt , put in glue , reinstalled bolt and rotated . as it was going up , unaware that plate had gaulded ( welded ) to nut from previous installation , plate rotated with bolt and cut his arm .
before shift during test run , mancar had come off track . gravel in slope caused this . slope was cleaned , cleared and inspected . bent bolt on bearing cap of mancar was also repaired .
on 6/29/2017 employee was operating a loader and strained back when the machine drove through a rut . injury did not result in reportable restrictions until 7/10/2017 due to employee on vacation for the holiday . spoke to the mine safety and health administration office of injury illness and employment .
when material is damp , chute on screen machine builds up and needs to be cleaned out . shoveling out chute must have slipped off shovel and up into counterweight of screen on the screen machine .
man trip derailed , injured employee and another employee hurt their backs .
employee was installing roof bolts in the number 5 entry face on mobile mining unit number 9003 section . when the left rib rolled off hitting the employee from behind , the rib injured the lower part of the employee's legs .
driver fell from concentrate truck will tarping load , fell approximately   3 feet and struck right shoulder possible dislocation or fracture .
employee trammed the dual head roof bolting machine from number   6 heading to number   5 heading . he backed the machine up into number   5 heading to turn around and take bolter to number   1 heading . as he was backing up the bolter cable fell off the back of the bumper . employee attempted to put the cable back on the bumper with the bolter still moving and caught his hand between bolter and coal lying on rib .
employee was going out to start the fresh water pump for the plant . he was walking across walkway going to pump house and had his head down squinting his eyes from sun . he walked into corner of steel frame for a swing out window that had vibrated loose and opened . resulted in cut to right side of head requiring 6 stitches
during dismount from a dozer , employee lost his balance and fell , landing on the ground flat footed .
employee was in the process of building a permanent ventilation control ( brattice ) when a shuttle car entered the cross-cut where she was working and struck her in the left leg causing a stress fract ure to the fibula .
the injured employee was trouble shooting the cb system . he disconnected a stainless steel line to check for flow . as the chemical began to flow , it struck another nearby line and a portion splashed into the employee's left eye . the employee's eye was flushed and then he was transported to urgent care . the employee took one dose of pain medication that night .
employee was inside a tank car , cleaning the car . local railroad came on site , accidentally releasing rail cars above the car the employee was inside . the released cars struck the car being cleaned , knocking the employee down , bruising his lower back . no medical treatment was deemed necessary by attending physicians .
employee placed equipment guard on table in order to use ballpeen hammer to straighten guard . while swinging hammer with both hands , employee missed and struck his right shin with hammer , causing a contusion . employee was prescribed anti-inflammatory with further evaluation . employer was notified on 10/2/07 that physical therapy began on 9/28/07 .
employee was changing wrench on the drill or roof bolter when a piece of rock fell out inby the atrs and rolled back , pinning the employee's left leg against the drill head .
employee was backing down off of the excavator track to the step with right leg and when employee placed left foot on the ground and removed hand from rail to move right foot from the step employee left knee twisted .
fan belts were installed on the compressor for the on a brookville motor . the fan belt had a twist in it after installation . the victim was not involved in the installation of the belts , but wanted   to fix the twist . at this time the motorman set the breaker on the motor . the victim reached for the belt as the breaker was set . compressor started hand was caught between belt and pulled
employee was walking around front of truck to get lunch box ... foot slipped and employee felt pain in right knee .
employee stepped off screen - higher elevation to lower - and sprained his right   knee .
while walking , the injured employee tripped on a small pile of sand , lost his balance and fell to his hands and knees . the injured employee sustained a strained right shoulder and returned to work with restrictions and prescription medication .
employee was removing pipe when a valve came apart causing approximately   120 psi of water to hit him .
the number 2 hoist showed a computer fault code of `` drive stall '' . the mine was evacuated and an electrician was notified . the hoist computer system was reset and the code cleared . the hoist was tested at 10:50 pm . miners returned underground at 10:50 pm .
a roof fall occurred in the 1st west submain off of 3rd north submain . cross-cut   26 number 6 entry . length 29 ' width 18 ' by height 10. the roof was bolted with 6 ' point anchor bolts .
employee was shoveling around the kiln hood when he felt pain/cramping in his lower back and legs . employee stopped shoveling and went to emergency room where he was given prescription drugs and was not allowed to come back to work for 2 days .
employee was standing behind manbus when the operator began to back up , hitting the employee's left foot .
a cave was found in our common entries , 1 cross-cut outby spad number 195 area is inby where an other cave had fell on 7/20/01 . the area that had fell was bolted with 6' point anchor bolts .
employee was helping to remove a piece of plywood from the bed of the pup trailer . it cames loose and landed on top of his left foot . possible broken bone in top of foot ( swelling ) .
during normal operation the main hoist shutdown and would not run from the control switches in the hoist house . a relay in the wonder ware was receiving a fault alarm in the slack rope circuit . electricians found the tripped relay and the hoist was back in service in approximately 28 minutes , however the call to mine safety and health administration was made as a precaution .
employee was lifting the end of a piece of sheet metal to slide it out of the way . when he picked up on the metal he felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
the employee was making a bin change . when the employee loosened a gate , the gate spun around and hit his right knee .
employee was under a d-10 dozer doing maintenance   when employee crawled out they felt a pain in right knee ( employee has had prior issues with same knee ) . surgery was done on 2/6/2012 and it has not been determined whether this is preexisting or a new injury .
employee was walking and along the portable crusher when employee stepped on a loose rock and lost footing and caught self . resulted in jarring back .
a faulty ammonia sensor alarmed causing an evacuation of our underground operation and mine safety and health administration was notified as a courtesy . mine safety and health administration cited the meikle mine for not notifying them about a possibility of an unplanned gas inundation near the betze portal within 15 minutes .
while employee was descending , he stepped on a pipe his foot slipped and his right knee hit the concrete surface .
employee shut down megatex then using a pry bar , pushed megatex over and reached into pipe with right hand to remove obstruction . pry bar slipped causing megatex to slide back over employee's right hand . right wrist and hand were lacerated and smashed .
employee reported : he and a coworker were attempting to couple diesel rock car to the diesel getman , when lifting the getman coupling , experienced pain to his low back . for a prolonged time period , he has suffered from degenerative disc disease which has worsened over the years .
employee allegedly slipped on grease in front of the time clock and fell hurting his back . was taken by he save to hospital . was checked over and told to go back to work after 48 hrs . employee was under reasonable suspension for alcohol and knew he was going to be tested .
employee attempted to take a step to begin walking and stepped on a rock forcing her knee backwards .
the employee was struck on the left shoulder by a rock from the rib as he was operating an underground mucker . he did not return to his next shift .
employee observed an electrical tracking on the line side of the disconnect , tried to clear by tapping on it with a screwdriver handle and it exploded .
did not start losing time until 2/12/09 . while unloading supplies with lo-trac , drove into hole and jarred his neck . requiring surgery on neck .
employee had barred one end of a stick of supply rail off a rail car . when the other end of the rail was barred off the opposite end of the rail car , the end already on the ground bounced up into the air and landed on top of employee's right foot .
employee reported he was pulling on a 6 '' vacuum hose when he slipped on snow covered ice and fell resulting in a fracture of his left arm just about the wrist .
employee was cleaning rocks off of the miner when his finger was struck by a rock resulting in a laceration that required sutures . he also twisted his knee when moving away from the miner .
employee was lowering a plate that bags slide over in packing operation . edge was sharp and he cut his finger .
employee was mixing concrete slurry when mix got into his eyes causing burning sensation .
while employee was emptying the 2 yard tire overflow bin , the employee reached horizontally into the bin to pull a car tire ( less than 25 lbs ) out and felt a sharp pain between shoulder blades .
employee was going down stairs to collect sample from floc and leach . she was over taken by fumes as she entered into the building causing her to get sick and lose her voice . as a result of this she was diagnosed primarily with chemical tracheitis and chemical caused bronchitis . she is to take further tests .
employee was trying to manually pull a 4 ' piece of drill steel that was stuck down out of hole . his hand slipped and drill steel came out of hole and struck his left little finger .
employee was exiting the binder pump containment area when he slipped and fell on a patch of ice . accident not reported by employee until 1/8/01 .
a rash developed on the neck and lower neck area of the individual . it is alleged that this is work related .
injured employee and another employee were replacing the guard on number 19 conveyor . injured employee was using a crescent wrench to tighten the nut that held the guard in place . the wrench slipped and struck his hand a gainst the edge of the guard resulting in laceration to top of 2 fingers right hand .
audiometric records indicate an industrial hearing loss .
employee was walking around the side of a roof bolter to get a half header . as he was walking he slipped on the coal bottom and twisted his left knee and hip . on 11/7/02 he began missing time .
employee was climbing ladder when his muddy safety boots slipped on ladder . left side contusion and cracked lower vertebrae - mri only no meds . no treatment by doctor at emergency room .
employee was filling water tank with water out of a pump hose and tripped over the hose and fell about 4 ft from back of pickup truck to ground hitting shoulder area .
the employee was handling crib to jack up the pan on the miner when he mashed his left finger . employee got stitches in his left finger .
had just finished cutting and was waiting for bolters to complete bolting when a piece of coal/rock 32 '' long x 23 '' wide x 1 3/4 '' thick fell and hit him on the head .
injured was in the process of changing batteries in scoop , when he ran over crib block . this caused him to be jarred inside canopy and he struck his head when hat fell off . taken to boone memorial   and received two stitches .
the number 6 elevator was inoperable from 11:50 am until 1:45 pm due to a short in an electrical control relay . this conveyance is part of the mine emergency escape route . affected miners were instructed   to use an alternate escape route until the elevator was repaired .
employee got foreign material in right eye while picking up safety glasses . employee received an abrasion on eye and given a prescription eye medication for treatment . employee released back to work on full duty following medical treatment .
employee was operating 988 feed loader at crushing plant ( wednesday - friday ) . when he woke up os saturday morning , he felt pain in his lower back . began treatment on sunday .
moving a man basket , unit hit a bump , resulting in loss of balance and causing him to fall in basket . he was using a safety belt at the time .
supervisor was holding a box wrench on the bolt heads of the tube assembly of a telsmith screen while another employee was tightening the nuts on the opposite side with a ratchet when the supervisor's right little finger got pinched causing a laceration that required five stitches .
employee was operating a chain hoist at palletizer . a coworker was driving wheels in place on shaft with a hammer when a chip of metal flew off rollers and struck employee in chin . metal lodged   in employee's chin .
employee was at the primary crusher hopper using a porta power hydraulic jack and shaft to push metal skirting together at grizzly feeder in order to repair a crack in the metal . the jack and shaft buckled and the shaft struck employee , cutting his right middle finger and striking his right foot . cut required sutures . employee was unable to work from 9/4/02 until released 9/11/02 .
while the injured worker was inspecting a siphon line on a water pump an insect crawled up his shirt sleeve . the insect bit the injured worker on the shoulder . this incident was reported by the injured worker 3 days after it occurred . when the injury was reported it was still swollen and required medical attention due to an infection .
the operator was notified by mine safety and health administration that the employee exercised his rights under 30 code of federal regulations part 90 .
employee was walking from one area to another in the plant and stepped into a frozen rut , twisting his right knee . he did not seek medical attention until september 29 , 2008 , resulting in surgery scheduled on 10/22/08 .
the employee was struck on the right wrist by a rock . he returned to work on his subsequent shifts . on july 7 , he requested medical follow up and the treating physician restricted his work activity   .
employee was moving bike racks from under railroad belts . when employee got back into sweeper to sweep under belts employee noticed a sharp pain in lower back .
the employee was using a rivet buster to clean up around a tail pulley when the employees left finger came into contact with the shaft as it was recoiling causing it to get pinched between the shaft and the collar .
the intersection of number   1 entry , at cross-cut 11 in longwall 304 had been dangered off due to poor roof conditions . crews were progressively installing roof to floor supports toward the intersection . as pumpable cribs were pumped , they observed the roof sag . the roof eventually fell , 18 ft wide by 60 ft long by approximately 15 ft high .
employee was lifting a used belt scraper off of the mine floor and felt pain in his back . employee states that he has had numerous back pain occurrences .
an unintentional fall of roof occurred in number 5 entry , cross cut number 33 , on the 4th south sub main . the fall measured 20 ' long x 18 ' wide x 15 ' thick . the fall consisted of fractured laminated stack rock . the area was bolted with 10 ' point anchor bolts . the fall will be cleaned up and resupported .
operator was removing a johnson bar he had used at the conveyor flop-gate platform inside of 19/39 transfer station when it slipped from his hand and fell on his right foot and struck him behind the end of his steel toe .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by the miner examiner . fall measured 19 ' wide by 5 ' high by 40 ' long . fall is located in the number 8 return approximately   2000 feet from the working section between survey spad numbrers 355 and 356. this area will not be rehabilitated .
employee removed plastic trim to try and fix an intermittently working windshield wiper on a dozer . in removing the plastic , a section broke off . employee was going to set the piece outside of the dozer , and while exiting the machinery employee hit the dashboard with the trim and the sharp edge penetrated through employee's shirt and stuck employee in employee's right arm just below employee's bicep .
employee was carrying 3 '' lay-flat water line to a pump in number 4 entry near the shaft bottom when he felt pain in his lower back .
pre-shift examiner discovered a roof fall in 2nd southwest butt number 1 entry ( room neck ) inby spad # 547. the fall was in the intersection extending into number 1 entry and cross-cut 2-1 in both directions . fall was approximately   60 ' long by 18 ' wide and 6'-8 ' high . area was bolted with 6 ' super twist bolts . the area was dangered off with cribs and danger signs on all sides .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered at 5:30 am on monday , september 17 , 2007. the fall occurred at spad number 2865 , 2500 feet outby the working section . the fall measured approximately 20 feet wide x 70 feet long x 5 feet high . additional support has been added to this area to prevent future roof falls .
employee was tramming a continuous miner when miner boom pinned him against the coal rib .
a roof fall was found at 2:20 pm on 02-08-2000 in number 4 entry 60 ft inby spad number   20 a 3-way intersection . this area was mined january 1 , 1999. the roof support was 6 ' and 7 ' torque tension roof bolts   with 5 '' x 11 ' straps . the fall was 16 ' wide , 16 ' long , 12 ' high .
while drilling a hole for a roof bolt , a bolt holding the operator's canopy broke allowing the canopy to drop , striking the employee on the right shoulder . employee first sought medical attention on 7-18- 01 first day off work was 723-01 .
unintentional roof fall occurred in number 3 entry at spad number 1183 . 20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' height . type of bolt used 6 ' torque tension and 8 ' point anchor .
employee was operating the miner when a rock fell out from between the bolts and struck employee on the hand .
employee stepped unevenly while getting down from truck and felt something pull in his knee .
elbow pain due to repetitive motion from water lancing . restricted work while going through physical therapy and further evaluation .
employee was carrying aluminum monorail along the side of the tailpiece and slipped . the monorail slipped from his hands , fell and hit his right knee cap . the employee finished his shift , but decided to see a doctor at a later date . the 2 mri images of the right knee showed degenerative joint disease with no tear or internal derangement . please consider this oi . mri information attached .
off-highway end-dump truck veered off roadway onto the 8'+ shoulder , struck a buried drainage pipe , traveled up the steep slope adjacent to the shoulder , struck a boulder ( approximately 5 ' in diameter   ) and power pole , turned over onto its driver's side and came to rest on the side of the vehicle with the driver's side of the bed of the truck resting on the boulder .
roof fall on 005-0 section last open cross-cut   number   26 fall from number 4 right through number 5 right 100 ' long 25 ' wide and 8 ' to 12 ' thick . the area has been stopped and pulled back cribs have been built and dangered   off .
while getting off manbus to throw switch , employee twisted left knee .
employee was installing permanent roof supports in number 3 left break . he had swung the drill boom out , and was in process of placing starter drill steel into drill pot , when he was struck by piece of draw rock on his left elbow . resulting in small fracture .
employee stated while turning a left hand break in the number 4 entry on the 1 west section a rib rolled out striking him on the legs knocking him down . another employee had to help him get the rock off of his leg . when the rib hit him it caused him to twist his right knee which caused pain between his right knee and ankle .
the employee was tightening bolts with a ratchet and socket on the 34dl04 drill leveling jack pad . the socket slipped and the employee fell backwards catching himself with his left hand on a sharp edged rock . employee received two stitches .
employee was removing roller which stated to fall . he overextended wrist while holding onto part the next day he noted a knot on wrist which kept increasing in size and discomfort doctor has splinted and x-rayed seeing specialist to determine exact nature of injury
employee has been working for this company in various positions since he was hired 10/01/80 . approximately   5 years laborer intermittent with 1 year as plant operator , 3 hours packer . 1.5 years as mech welder , and   has worked int he lab as wet analyst/lab analyser off and on approximately   11 years .
employee experienced pain in his lower right abdomen on 12-28-2011. initial doctor visit on 12/29/11 revealed hernia . employee sought 2nd opinion . that doctor diagnosed only a muscle pull/strain and gave employee a no restriction doctor note . employee believes the cause was heavy lifting and shoveling of salt over extending period of time . related to accident reported june 2011. employee quit 1/13/12 .
employee was brushing/clearing with excavator when tree fell through the machine door and landed on his right foot , pinning foot . right foot was cut on bottom and possible fractured bones in the foot   .
the victim was walking in front of the number 11 scoop that was traveling in number 1 ( intake ) entry of the 14a longwall to deliver posting material to the worksite . the operator of the scoop stated that he saw the victim walking on the side opposite of the operator . he then looked back and did not see him . he exited the cab and walked to the front of scoop and found the victim injured on the ground .
employee stated they slipped getting off d8 cat dozer at the gravel pit and twisted a knee . no witnesses to this accident , and employee didn't report this to a supervisor at any time . i was notified of the incident when employee filed first report for workman's compensation on 5/12/17 with hr . people did see employee limping and asked about it , but employee didn't report this to anyone . date and time are in question .
employee was removing insulation from the end of the high-line to install in the power box . the knife slipped and cut the top of his left thumb .
employee dropped drill steel and it fell between leveling arms . employee grabbed the steel with left hand and bumped the thrust lever . the head went up , pinching left index finger between drill steel and spare steels sticking out of holder . employee was placed on restrictive duty .
employee was shoveling sand .
an unplanned , non injury roof fall was discovered on 12-20-06 at approximately 2pm while the mine examiner was conducting his weekly examination . the fall was in the intake air course at the 57th cross cut in the number 6 entry . the fall measured approximately   0-8 inches thick , 19 feet wide and 30 feet long .
the employee was working from an elevated platform thawing a coal chute , when the platform to pile fell ( approximately   5 ' ) twisting left knee .
block slid off pallet due to ice on block which hit employee in the left shin . he was manually handling blocks on pallet on forklift .
reported claim on occupational pneumoconiosis by west virginia workers compensation . due to exposure to dust .
employee tripped on rock and tore ligament .
the number 1 portable elevator malfunction at approximately 1 '' 45 pm it was found that the changer had trip and the batteries were dead . employee were notified and the escapeways was rerouted to slope host . at 4 ; 20 pm the batteries were changed and elevator put back in service .
employee was cutting a piece of rubber hose with his pocket knife . he was cutting toward his left hand when he stabbed his left hand .
a kink was found on the crabapple hoist rope during a regular inspection . the hoist was taken out of service for retermination
the employee was attempting to remove the bolter cable down from the   j   hooks which were suspended from the roof by a roof bolt plate . as the employee lifted up on the roof bolter cable , the   s   hook which is attached to the   j   hook came free from the plate eye . this resulted in the   j   hook falling and striking the employee on the bridge of the nose resulting in a fracture .
the employee pinched the fifth finger of his left hand when a tool box lid closed . this was a first aid injury . on 7-24 the employee was experiencing discomfort and had an x-ray which identified   a fracture .
a roof fall occurred in the 1 main east in number 5 entry in the intersection of cross-cut number 23 and extending through the pillarline for 20 ft . toward number 6 entry measuring 18 ft . wide x 40 ft long . x 8 ft . high . the area was supported with 6 ft . tension rebar bolts and 9 ft . mega bolts . an undetected slip was determined to be the cause of the fall . this area was mined in april 2004 .
the hydraulic jacks were used to raise the primary jaw to unpin the stationary legs up front . when the employee's up front attempted to raise the stationary leg manually to pull the pin , the employee in back raised the unit in the back unaware of the teetering effect it had on the unit up front . resulted in the employee up front getting his fingers pinched .
good weather muddy road conditions , lighting was fair equip condition good . employee was pushing into the feeder and the control tower operator moved the tripper causing rocks to fall on top of the dozer and while operator escaped he hurt his right knee .
employee was cutting belt skirt rubber , came off edge of rubber and made /2 '' puncture to his right thigh .
solvay minerals workers were shoveling rocks on floor creating a slippery work area . employee was moving a bottle cart . his feet slipped he fell catching himself with left arm and shoulder , hurting his shoulder .
employee was holding bolt blocks while a coworker welded them onto the miner . during the process , employee's eyes were burned . he went to see his doctor for treatment .
employee was bolting when a draw rock fell from top and smashed his left hand against drill pot .
a roof fall measuring 30' long , 20' wide , 6 1/2 , had occurred in the 1st northwest submain number 2 entry , 23+85 . the fall was timbered around .
while hoisting material up the preheater , employee stepped back and caught heel of foot on concrete pad and fell back . turned while falling and landed on concrete pad bolts . called ambulance and was checked out and released . pain in left thigh and pain in left shoulder was intense .
employee stabilizing soil sample trailer to fix flat tire . jack broke on tongue of trailer grabbing his glove and pinching finger underneath hitch plate of trailer . he jerked hand out from under plate causing a portion of right middle finger tip to be severed . no bone damage or loss of dexterity .
employee trying to pull slack on citizens band radio coaxial cable and cut a zip tie with pocket knife when knife slipped off and cut his left index finger . had 7 stitches in wound at emergency room . and returned to work at 11 pm .
while shoveling employee struck his finger against a piece of metal at the roll plant .
traveling to fast for conditions resulted in vehicle roll over . passenger christi taylor , sustained fractured left femur and right ankle .
after taking a ball mill density sample , employee stepped backwards , lost his balance and fell against a hand railing causing a fracture to his rib . employee went to the clinic and was given a lifting restriction   while rib was too sore . employee had vacation from 5/18/00-5/27/00 and returned with no complications .
the drill helper was stacking drill rods against the rib . the rods started to fall striking his foot .
employee pouring concrete had build up in line , when line cleared employee received concrete to the face/eyes resulting in concrete burns to the eyes .
employee was positioned on top of the transmission of a loader to remove hydraulic filters . he had loosened a filter and was turning it the rest of the way off and suddenly had a sharp pain in his back .
employee was performing maintenance on the a side briquetter unit and while performing this task tripped over a crib block . as a result , the employee fell into the belt structure and fractured his right arm ( humerus ) .
rock fell from between bolts , striking employee on the back . rock striking the employee was approx . 3 ' long by 1 ' wide by 6 '' thick .
the drill helper grabbed a rotating drill steel with employee's left hand and became entangled in the drill steel . the employee was unsure why employee grabbed the steel . all work was stopped and emergency care was provided to the employee .
employee reports that he was closing a hatch door to number 4 cyclone and lost control of the door . it struck his left hand , fracturing left number 4 finger .
a roof fall occurred at the above mentioned mine . the size of this fall was 30 ' x 20 ' x 4 ' . the location was in the neutral area , spad 5878 , 900 ' from the producing section . roof support was 42 '' resin bolts . area will not see rehabilitation .
employee was unloading supply car when a rock fell from the top striking employee on right shoulder and pushing employee into supply car .
shovel operator was walking out of the control room in the house when he stepped off the last step in oil and fell on his back . he was holding the handrail with his right hand and his left arm hit the hoist brake in an attempt to catch himself . he was treated by a physician and taken off work .
employee preparing to fill in washed out area using a bulldozer . employee was walking through the rough terrain of the washed out area when his foot slipped into a washout injuring his ankle .
cut left index finger . while holding a liner bolt head with left hand and using an air gun with my right , the bold head spun cutting my finger .
employee stated that he was bolting roof top in number 2 heading when his legs slipped out from under him causing him to stretch groin muscle .
employee was working putting a wiper on feed belt when a rock weighing approximately   50 lbs fell off above him landing on his foot fracturing his ankle . the rock fell approximately   4 ' .
while pushing over 36 '' bag line vent tube , the air pressure in the bag line forced employee backwards causing him to strain his lower back .
employee was in the process of setting rock props and as he was handed the setting hammer for setting the props he felt something pop in his shoulder . the time difference between the accident date and the date submitted is because the employee did not loose any time until may 12 2006 from this incident
while riding on a damascus 3 wheel mantrip , operator lost control when he tried to back into a cross-cut on a steep grad , upsetting the mantrip .
high coal mill inlet temperatures caused and explosion and fire in the coal mill cyclone and dust collector compartments . no personnel were injured and the coal mill's     fire suppression and explosion containment systems functioned properly minimizing property damage .
employee's were raking ash from kiln number 2 grates ; ash dust went into employee's eyes .
while working on fly ash bin , hose was pressurized and fly ash material got into eyes .
employee was helping change lift cylinder when the cylinder fell on his finger .
employee was readjusting the water stand sock in order to load the water truck . as he was climbing up the ladder to position the sock his foot slipped and his right shin contacted the ladder rung resulting in a deep cut that required stitches .
employee was assisting another person carry a steel roller for a belt conveyor , foot became entangled in mud , felt pain in lower back .
he was reclaiming on 2nd east beltline when the scoop accidentally ran over side of 6 '' water line causing the water line to come up and hit him in the chest .
person was walking across longwall face towards the headgate . he walked past the shear which was loading coal at number 136 support . shear operator stated a rock came off shear drum and was thrown towards injured person . the rock hit him in the right hand causing laceration .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the old number 3 panel ( recovery area ) at the 67+20 station in the number 6 entry . the fall did not affect ventilation , passage of men or cause personal injury . the fall will not be cleaned up . the fall measured 20 feet x 30 feet x 7 feet high . the area had been bolted with 6 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
employee alleges to experiencing noise induced hearing loss as a result of his employment with apogee coal and was granted a 11 % permanent disability award by brick street mutual .
the truck operator was traveling from the 870 level of the quarry to the waste dump with a load of waste material . the truck left the road , overtraveled a berm and continued down the highwall , rolling over before coming to rest int he quarry . it is believed that the truck operator suffered a medical event and as a result was unable to control the truck as it left the road .
employee was adjusting the height of the personal fan that blows on the employee as they work sacking the clay . the fan fell on his left hand , cutting the thumb .
employee was dismantling guard when it fell onto hand lacerating right   big finger . he was going to replace the bolts on the centrifuge pump .
employee was driving a haul truck when he hit a bump in roadway causing him to hit head on window . he neglected to wear seatbelt .
employee was unloading ventilation tubing from shuttle car and felt pain in right shoulder . employee was examiner at emergency room and was released to return to work . employee worked his next scheduled shift and then followed up with his family physician and taken off work pending mri diagnosis . first day missed for this injury is 10/29/2015
employee was inside of the dust collector changing bags and removing them from the compartment when dust got into his eyes .
electrical problem , mine safety and health administration was notified at 5:13 pm , evacuation started at 5:00 pm , completed at 5:13 pm wire was repaired at 8:15 pm , miners returned underground at 8:35 pm the hoist was tested before put back in service .
wrench mashed small finger , cut bottom of first knuckle on right hand .
maintenance department was conducting the service cage emergency generator test . the service hoist would not reset upon completion . the mine was evacuated and it was discovered that a bad ethernet card was at fault .
employee was loading a metal toolbox into a rail runner and when he lifted on the toolbox , he felt a sharp pain in his low back .
employee was drilling through starter bucket drill came in contact with buss bar , causing a flash burn to employee's hand
on july 2nd , 2003 , employee was struck in the neck by a projectile while cutting coal with a continuous mining machine . preliminary findings suggest the victim was struck by a small piece of metal from the tip of a cutting bit .
a roof fall was discovered in the number 8 entry 1 break inby spad # 315. the fall measured about 20 long , 20 ft wide and 6 ft high .
employee filed an alleged claim for occupational   pneumoconiosis on 11/1/04 after working 1 yearr 8 months . for long branch energy . received notice on 11/22/04 . claim number   2005018128 . 1/11/05 : reported by remington coal , llc ( stockburg number 1 mine , 4608634 ) : this employee received a 5 % occupational pneumoconiosis award . ( employee was employed at 4608634 for 5 years prior to working for long branch energy . )
miner was operating a cat 992c loader and felt a burning sensation in right forearm . visit to medical   provider on 09-12-2011 diagnosed infected insect bite . followed up on 09-14-2011 and admitted to hospital to begin treatment of staph infected insect bite .
while moving the longwall monorail with a winch , the chain securing the winch broke . the winch swung and hit the employee in the face above the right eye , requiring sutures . the report is being filed at this date because we have been waiting for additional medical information . we have not received the information , however they may be a possible skull facture .
crawling out of car body and strained muscle in thoracic region of the back
employee was walking off of the longwall face and stepped in a hole injuring lower back . lost time as of 1/28/2015 .
the employee stated that employee had taken a load of gravel towards the number 1 section to work on the roadway and was on the way back when employee hit a hole and jarred back . the incident became a restricted duty injury on 7/11/16 due to the employee being placed on modified duty restrictions for a strain .
injured was inspecting the installation of a grizzly unit 141. he was standing on unit 150 , 34 inches above the floor . he reached in unit 141 to get a paper tag . as he removed the tag his arm from   the chute he fell off the east side of unit 150. investigation shows he may have had his face in the atmosphere which caused him to fall .
during the pre-shift of the 001-0 mobile mining unit , t-section , at approximately 5:50 am , the pre-shift examiner encountered an explosive mixture of methane in the range of 5 % in the number 1 entry and 3.8 % in the number 2 entry of the pillar line .
employee was operating an 988 cat loader when he backed into a 16g cat grader that had entered the pit area . employee continued to work and went to the doctor on 06/18/2012 after receiving a jar which resulted in reoccurring back pain and was placed off work pending an evaluation by a specialist . first day off work was 06/19/2012 .
employee stated employee was operating the diesel scoop when the machine overheated . employee heard a leaking noise from the rear of the scoop , and as employee walked toward the rear of the scoop to see where the noise was coming from , the cap covering a reservoir blew off . this caused hot fluid to contact the side of face , resulting in burns and restricted work days .
while shoveling employee turned and felt a pain in his knee . a physician advised him to stay off work .
employee claims that while he was trying to start a screw conveyer motor , the mounting bolts for the motor which was located at the end of the screw conveyer and next to the start up switch , the   mounting bolts broke causing the motor to rotate to the left . when motor rotated to the left , it struck him in the chest . he suffered a contusion to the chest .
alkali dust flew up into employee's eyes when he and his coworkers were attempting to remove screw from the inside of bypass dust collector hopper .
was lifting up mantrip to change tire when it fell on his hand .
labor employee was doing normal work duties and felt tightness in his chest area , begin sweating , and legs went numb . employee called supervisor for assistance and ambulance was called . factors in incident : extreme heat 98f , very little water intake ( dehydrated ) , had not eaten breakfast that morning .
the injured was pushing a piece of metal back into the gob and he ran his hand across a sharp piece of metal . the sharp piece of metal cut through his glove and lacerated his right   hand . it took 7 sutures to close the wound .
employee pinched finger with jaw plate
employee climbed down from front end loader and stepped on some algae , causing him to slip and fall . his doctor scheduled him to have surgery on his right knee on 12-15-00 without the plant's knowledge . employee notified the plant on 12-22-00. last day worked was 12-14-00 .
employee was stepping from shield 86 to 85 and hit his head on the side shield and jammed his neck .
employee was assisting with setup of a work platform . when climbing down , he missed the step or slipped backwards approximately 3 feet contacting a rectangular guard on an 8750 dragline . this contact resulted in a multiple rib fracture to the employee .
other was attempting to remove the hoist cable from the dragline . the cable got stuck so . another was on the cab of dragline trying to release the cable . employee jumped up on the tracks of the drag line to assist other however other was unaware that he jumped up on the tracks and at the same time the cable was released . the cable swung over and caught employee across the face and threw employee approximately
employee was pushing a portable cart when it hit a small crack in the floor . this caused the cart to move suddenly and caught her finger between the cart and a sample bin . the cut she received resulted in 4 sutures .
the employee was riding in a mantrip traveling into the mine . the mantrip hit a pothole in the road . the employee bumped his head on the roof of the trip . upon investigation the incident appears to have aggravated an existing condition .
employee was climbing the ladder to the haulpak   truck when he slipped and fell to the ground , bumping his knee on the ladder .
miner was lifting a metal lid on a dynominer machine when he lost control of the lid and it dropped on his finger smashing it between the lid and the machine frame . the injury was diag . and treated with notification on 11/16/10 at which time it became a medical reportable injury .
drilling hole near bent bolt to replace it . drill bit had broken tip out on last hole . before he could install new bit , a piece of 2 ' wide , 6 '' -8 '' thick , 6'-7 ' long shale fell in pieces hitting employee . bending of previous bolt pried shale loose creating potential to fall which was unrecognizable . 18 stitches in right hand , and upper minimally displaced fracture upper anterior maxilla .
employee was attempting to reset breaker on ramcar when she slipped and hyperextended fingers on right hand no accident report was made on this date pain and some swelling persisted and on 1/23/01 she   sought medical attention . doctor diagnosed slight fracture to metacarpal bone . she has been able to work at normal duties
employee was struck by a triangular piece of coal that fell from the corner of the roof while he was hanging brattice . the coal measured 2 ' long by 12 '' by 3 '' , resulting in a concussion , neck strain and contusion behind his right ear .
as an employee was adjusting pipe in the fusing machine , the loader operator pushed the pipe further into the machine and pinched the employee's left hand middle finger . the employee was wearing gloves at the time of the incident . the employee received 6 stitches and their finger was fractured .
a fully trained miner was taking ropes off of a supply car when employee sprained lower back . the accident was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
while picking up stone to be loaded on a pallet employee grabbed a large piece which was covered by smaller pieces of stone and turned to one side to dislodge the stone from the bottom of a pile . the   stone did not dislodge but his lower back did causing lower back pain .
employee states that after placing plastic on a window he stepped down from the ledge in doing this his right knee buckled gave way and he put all weight on left foot causing it to twist .
painting was being done on highwall miner between the date of 4/16- 4/20 2001. employee reported problems with his breathing .
employee was unloading parts from truck , a trunnion and shaft , when the shaft slipped . he reached out to hold it and pulled a muscle in his upper back .
employee was opening hood to turn heater valves when he experienced pain in his back and left leg . employee has a history of back problems . employee said he got hurt in previous job .
employee , along with 3 others were repairing splice on thayer belt feeder . while removing tail pulley shaft , tail pulley shifted trapping left ring finger between tail pulley drum and bearing assembly . employee's left ring finger fractured . restricted duty - no lost time .
changing tire on cat rock truck and took the wheel apart and was rolling the ( side ring ) wheel part and it had a burr sticking out and cut the right   hand palm area .
employee was loading a shuttle car in the five right cross-cut when a piece of rock measuring ( 9 ' long x 47 '' wide x 1-3.5 ' thick ) fell from the mine roof from between the first and second bolt out from the   rib striking him on the left leg and ankle . a fracture was sustained from this injury .
employee was walking , carrying a jackhammer , tripped on the baggy jeans he was wearing and fell striking his head on the ground . employee went to the emergency room . late in the evening with a severe headache . diagnosis   : minor concussion .
injured employee was standing next to a shield adjustment hose on the longwall recovery face . while the shield was in the process of lowering to pull , a return hose ruptured and sprayed the employee on the right side of his head and face resulting in a corneal abrasion . safety glasses were being worn at the time of the incident .
cab door latch released unexpectedly causing the door to swing closed catching injured's left hand causing bruise to palm and back of hand .
employee was taking a short cut back to her work area. she started down a hill that had loose gravel and rocks in the path . half way down she stepped on a rock which caused her to twist her left ankle , which also caused it to fracture .
working with two other employees to remove airslide covers on number 2 mill outside airslide . as they were removing the last section , employee felt something give in his back .
employee getting out of drill . he hit his arm on windshield wiper and cut his arm .
area he was in was full of vapor from the start up of bank 2 dissolvers ; stepped into the pump area of building and stepped into a ditch full of hot water .
employee of the 600 excavator was referred `` fondo del seguro de estado '' for back pain .
while surveying setting over pipe leaned on a culvert pipe felt a pain in the knee thought nothing of it continued with day , 5/19/08 looked at knee bruising from left knee to ankle took himself to er . doctor stated this had to have happened the previous day just a broken blood vessel . release to work on the following monday 7/21/08 . nothing reported to main office till 7/24/08
employee states while digging a hole in the rib and floor with a dutch head hammer he swung the hammer and inadvertently caught his finger between the mine floor and hammer handle causing a laceration to one finger on the right hand . medical treatment only
employee was walking in the number 5 entry when a piece of draw rock ( laminated sandstone ) measuring 23 '' x 14 '' x 4 '' thick fell and struck him on the hard hat and right shoulder . the height was 99 '' . he suffered   a slight concussion and muscle strain to the lower back . he was unable to work on his next regularly scheduled shift .
a hose broke on the loader causing a full bucket of sand to crash to the ground
employee reported soreness in his upper back area between his shoulder blade . he could not recall any specific event that may have cause it . he is a production truck driver and mentioned the condition of the roads may have caused it . the reason for not reporting until now was we have done a further investigation .
employee was repairing machine , reinstalling chain . finger got caught between the chain and the sprocket . employee lacerated his finger requiring sutures .
employee stepped out of truck and when employee put right leg down , knee buckled and employee went down to the ground . employee states that employee can not move right leg below the knee .
employee was cleaning out a small bin under a dust collector where mica material had packed off above the rotary valve . he placed his arm and hand through a small opening in the bin to stir and dislodge   the material and his right hand finger contacted rotary valve causing a partial amputation above 1st knuckle to index and middle fingers . employee failed to shut off and lockout the rotary valve
roof bolter operators were positioning a 4 1/2 ' roll of welded wire mesh screen in preparation for the bolting cycle . the mesh was positioned parallel to and under the last row of permanent roof support , when a roof fall occurred . the roof rock sheared off at the last row of permanent roof support striking injured employee .
a roof fall occurred in the number 1 entry of 21 butt longwall panel between number 30 and number 31 cross-cuts ( 16+00 ) . the fall was 12 ft long x 15 ft . high x 16 ft . wide . no injuries and no property damage . area supported with 6 ft . high-tech bolts , additional 12 ft . bolts , dywidag   sling , root screen .
injured employee tossed an empty gatorade bottle at general mine foreman to get his attention . bottle struck and bounced off of foreman's leg and landed at the feet of another employee . the employee picked up the bottle and tossed it back at first employee , striking him in the mouth . broke off front eye tooth at gum line . employee will need dental attention .
employee dismounted equipment and stepped on a rock . injury was to left foot , arch area . minor contusion/bruise . employee was asked if he wanted to go to urgent care , he declined . 6/29/15 employee called me at approximately 8:35 pm . i informed him to go to the hospital if he was in `` that much pain '' . employee was sent to podiatrist on 6/30/15 to follow up . mri and blood work 7/1 . employee admitted 7/4 with infection left foot .
while cutting foam product employee states the box cutter he was using `` slipped '' causing a laceration to right   palm .
employee was using a sledge hammer to break up rocks in the longwall face conveyor . as he was using the hammer he felt pain in his lower back . finished the shift but pain became worse . there was no damage or impairment to the operation or to any mining equipment . improper use of hand tool caused the injury correction no other alarm were involved .
occupational   illness : employee reported on 1/14/2010 that he has had chronic pain in his right shoulder due to years of mining . no specific incident . over 1 year later , on february 14 , 2011 , he finally had surgery on his right shoulder . february 10 , 2011 was first shift missed , as he had his pre-operation appointment . on that day . this is an occupational   illness .
a roof fall occurred in the 1 west number 5 panel , number 8 entry , 31 cross-cut . the fall measures approx . 20 ft long , 12 ft wide , and 8 ft thick . the area is supported with 4 foot fully grouted resin bolts , and 10 foot point anchor bolts .
on november 2 , employee was using sledge hammer to repair crusher . he said the last hit felt funny . the next day , his hand swelled up . on november 4 , he went to doctor . doctor said he had slight fracture to right hand . the doctor gave him splint , placed him on restricted duty . chris went for follow-up on november 13. doctor released him to full duty as of november 14 .
employee was injured when the shuttle car that he was operating in number 2 entry ( near spad number 10686 ) hit a hole in the bottom and jammed his head into the canopy . management became aware of this accident on 1/17/05 and he started missing work on 1/20/05 .
employee developed lumbar inflammation while operating haul truck . employee is on modified duty that does not require any sitting for periods of time . when back to full duty we will rotate employee into a piece of equipment that is less strenuous on him .
a customer truck driver pulled his truck onto the weighout scale . he was getting out of the truck to get his scale ticket when he slipped and fell to the ground . he was later diagnosed with fractured ribs . the injured customer driver was employed by j and s , inc .
injured was removing bolts from a rotomill with a breaker bar . he hyperextended his right shoulder causing numbness .
employee was trying to take the mudflaps off back of trailer , the driver of the trailer started to back up and it caught his right   hand between flaps , hanger tires and landing gear . thus resulting in 3 smashed fingers , which were just bruised and not broken .
walking down number 5 entry toward mantrip , employee slipped and fell to the mine floor
a non-injury roof fall fell in the intersection of number two heading ( spad number 1012 ) and extended for 50 feet towards number one heading . fall was approximately   6.5 feet high . no equipment was involved .
employee was cutting the plastic cover of gas tank when knife slipped and cut his finger
a roof fall measuring 30' long x 18' wide x 8' high occurred in the southeast number   4 panel off of the number   3 northeast mains at the left cross-cut of spad number 8424 , intersection of number 1 entry into number 2 entry approximately 5,400 ' outby the 002 mobile mining unit ( 001 section ) .
a roof fall was discovered between the 8o and 8p recovery faces in the number 3 entry . beginning inby the number 1 cross-cut . the fall length is 90 feet long and 20 wide . the fall will be breakered off .
repairman was working on new 4 deck lime storage screen with several coworkers . at approximately   9:45 am he reached up with his left hand to give a wrench to another repairman , and he suddenly lost his balance and fell forward on the discharge   hood rail causing an injury to his right   arm . returned to work next day on restricted duty until healing is complete .
employee was on a scaffold 4 ' off ground welding hooks to hold electrical cables , he went to move and a board had been moved causing him to fall . lanyard caught him but he tit his right hand on scaffold causing injury . he did not report to management . coworkers asked if he needed to go to doctor , he stated he was okay . reported 11/12/12 . he has surgery for joint locked in flexion .
deep laceration to right ring finger while putting up 4 ft 5/8 '' roof bolt with a fletcher rrii
working on dredge , antifreeze splattered and burned both wrists and elbow .
employee stated he was walking toward the rear of the roof bolting machine and a rock fell from the top and hit the bolting machine then employee'ss   left shoulder and leg .
employee was moving backing plates for loading ramp . while putting in place , plate fell forward knocking employee to ground .
while bolting top the roof bolt operator turned to make a bolt up and a piece of roof fell striking the employee on the right ear causing a laceration , employee received first aid at scene and was transported to hrmc at prestonsburg kentucky , where he received stitches to his right ear .
employee tripped and fell while moving undercutter cable out of the roadway , tripped over cable .
team loaded excavator onto trailer for transport . employee climbed to top of equipment to get a height measurement for permitting . employee was not wearing fall arrest gear . while climbing back down , employee slipped on some hydraulic fluid and fell approximately   16 ' to the ground . employee's left arm hit the trailer beam , employee bounced off the track and landed on the ground .
a roof fall occurred on the galatia north , 7713 ' west entry number 3/3w headgate off 4w longwall . the fall was approximately 40 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6-9 ' thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners .
employee rolled a 55 gallon drum of antifreeze into the bucket of a loader . he rolled the drum approximately 3 ' . at the end of his work shift ( 5 pm ) he was complaining of his back hurting .
while lifting an outboard motor to replace it , employee felt his back cramp up . employee removed motor from workboat and placed it on the ground .
employee stated : was attempting to hang a piece of curtain in the number 8 entry , while doing so employee slipped on a rock causing employee to fall into the rib injuring right shoulder .
the east finlay elevator was down for more than 30 minutes due to the brakes needing adjusted . there was no entrapment .
employee had just got on section and was walking around the feeder to shovel the conveyor tail piece . he stepped on a piece of coal and twisted his knee .
employee was torquing a bolt on the closing hoist with a hex head socket when the tip broke causing him to strike his right thumb .
employee was adjusting forks on the forklift and smashed his finger .
employee was removing a belt clamp from the back of a pickup bed . the employee felt a sharp pain in his shoulder when he lifted the clamp and dropped it . the employee reported this to his supervisor and said he th ought he would be okay . the next day the pain persisted and he was taken to the doctor . on march 9 the employee again went to the doctor and was given a cortizone injection .
on september 7 , 2016 a employee reported that they had been bitten by a spider on the top of the right foot as employee dressed for shift . the employee refused medical treatment that day . on september 8 , 2016 the employee stated that the bite had become infected and wanted medical treatment . the employee was then placed on restricted duty due to cellulitis on the top of the right foot .
roof fall occurred in the e18 ( 022-0 ) working section , l-1 intake entry intersection adjacent to 3+30 distance along e18 number 4 belt just inby the tailpiece . fall measured 20 ' x 20 ' x unknown height   . area supported with 5 ' resin bolts and 64 '' combination bolts in a mixed pattern on 4' x 4 ' centers . fall did not affect ventilation or passage of miners and fall area was dangered off .
the injured was trouble shooting the air compressor on an ton battery , track mounted , supply motor locomotive . he used his left hand to turn the fan on the compressor , which allowed the brushes   inside the compressors electric motor to contact and allowed the fan to turn causing abrasions and lacerations to the palm and fingers of his left hand . required 18 sutures .
employee was walking beside off side of roof bolter slipped on rock and fell , left foreman landed on roof plate cutting forearm .
the victim was operating a skid steer loader underneath a belt conveyor that was being dismantled . a coworker was in an elevated manlift and was using a cutting torch to remove a piece of 4 '' metal tubing attached to the leg supports of the belt conveyor . the tubing fell to the ground , tipped over into the front of the loader and struck the victim . he was hospitalized and died on 1/9/09 .
6 employees were taking the mill elevator up and the elevator became stuck at 7:19am . the mill elevator became unstuck at 7:57am . an electrician found the elevator had an overload . thyssen krupp was called out and did a preventitive maintenance on the mill elevator .
employee was shoveling wet sand in our sussex pit and went to turn sideways and then felt something pull in lower back .
tarping load , stated he stepped back , missed pallet and fell on left leg .
employee is not sure of the date of the accident , but did not get reported to the company until 10/14/2015 . employee was cleaning in the lab and he aggravated his groin area while lifting a box . went to the doctor before reporting to the companying and doctor said he has a lingual hernia .
employee ( foreman ) did not turn power off and lock out 486 volt electric box . cut cable and made a splice . was electrocuted . taken to mount carmel hospital . we were notified of his death approximately 2:00 pm .
employee was removing a metal band from a lift of bacon straps , when the strap was cut it sprung back lacerating the employee's right forearm . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , mining equipment was not a factor , mining systems was not a factor , miner proficiency may have been a factor .
employee plugged in the cathead for the number 4 bolting machine and set up the breaker . the bolting machine was turned on and an arc flash came from the cathead . the flash caused a burn injury to the employee's face .
employee alleged that he hurt his shoulder as he was pushing up on ventilation tubing that was hanging from the roof of the mine . on 7-21-2010 , the employee received treatment for impingement syndrome and supraspinatus tendonitis , with the impingement as a result of chronic bone spurs . this is being classified as an illness .
employee was picking up wheel chocks and felt a pop in the left shoulder . employee has been receiving treatment for the past year while working full duty . surgery was approved with worker's compensation and employee become a lost time injury on 6/2/2017 .
the employee was operating a roof bolter , installing angle brackets . he had his foot on the drill mast so he could reach to install the bracket . his foot slipped causing him to fall . he caught himself with his left hand , causing him to strain his shoulder . he sought medical attention on 1/15/2014 . he has been held out of service pending an mri .
we had a rock fall on the number 5 beltline . this is a non-producing mine . all equipment has been removed from the mine . fall was approximately 100 ft long , 5 to 6 foot high . all approaches have been timbered and dangered off . we will not be cleaning up this fall due to the mine being closed .
operating dozer on steep slope , pulling muscle in left side of chest . operator did not report accident until 12:30 pm - 10/30/02 .
employee 2nd shift foreman grinding on shaft of snubber roller , grinder caught and spun around and cut rib on right forearm . sent to hospital and received 4 stitches .
imerys ' forklift operator driving forward couldn't see in front due to size of forklift load . forklift struck pedestrian/contractor employee who was injured upon being caught under moving forklift . imerys ' operator should have been driving loaded forklift in reverse instead of going forward with load .
while making screen repairs a piece of screen rubber slid down and struck employee on the back of his right ankle .
they were finishing a belt splice . employee was pounding the splice making sure all nails and splices were down . employee was feeling splice to make sure ends were down . employee got hit on the left ring finger with hammer .
victim stuck his hand in a confined area to release a chain that had hung on a motor frame . operator of front end loader said he made the sudden move without signaling him . by the time the operator   saw him make this sudden move the chain had become tight and pinched the end of his finger off .
performing maintenance , piece of metal hit left foot . swelling later after going home . hospital treated and released same evening .
contractor was placing the pin in the draw head to connect the locomotive to the rockduster and smashed left middle finger .
while putting the tongs on the kelly bar to break the tool joint , the injured employee was under the tong , trying to set it . slack in the tong line allowed the tong to roll down after it lost its bite on the kelly bar , thus striking the injured employee on the shoulder . the employee was sitting on a crib block , his tailbone was broken .
employee , employee of allied security incorporated suffered an apparent heart attack and was found by a fellow employee in the guard building at the number 2 gate of pine ridge coal company at approximately 0730 on 4-2-01 .
employee was driving forklift across dock plate @ truck loading docks . the truck that was being loaded was uneven , creating a 2 '' rise . when the front wheels of forklift hit rise , forklift stopped suddenly   , causing employee to lunge forward and suffer lower back strain . he was wearing seatbelt . due to persistent pain he was taken for medican attention 3/25/02 . diagnosed with minor back strain given medication
none - fault area . inby spad number 54 number 4 entry belt # 1. found on pre-shift .
setting cribs and bars along track entry . he was holding a crib to block above the beam and his coworker was using a sledge hammer to make it fit . the coworker missed the crib and struck the employee right index finger . x-ray showed a break in the tip of his right index finger . he returned to work his next shift on regular duty
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by management in an intersection located in the 22 right headings . the fall was in the number 4 resin roof bolts . the fall was cleaned up and the area resupported   .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 130 mine on the old number 9 belt in the number 5 entry 2 breaks . inby spad # 7862. the fall measured 45 ' long , 4.5 ' thick and 19 ' wide . the area was developed on 10/29/07 . no injuries were reported .
employee was shoveling concrete . he reached too far with a shovel and felt a tingly feeling down his left leg . his supervisor placed him on light duty for 3 days . on 7/14/11 , employee was taken for medical treatment . he was released with restrictions for seven days . employee is now on light duty at the concord mine site . he will return to full duty 7/21/11 per doctor's orders .
an unintentional roof fall occurred number 3 north belt and track entry at spad # 1902. size of fall was estimated to be 150' long x 20-22' wide x 4-7' high . the area had been supported with 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts with supplemental support consisting of 9 ' cable bolts . no injuries , ventilation was not interrupted , belt and track were caught under fall . fall has been cleaned up .
employee was getting ready to wash out the conveyor while he was holding the water hose he asked for the water to be turned on . when the wrong hose was turned on he turned to get away from it and twisted his right knee ,
haul truck 930 traveling from the 45 stockpile , section 3 area towards the north/south haul road went through the water bar and slowing down for a stop sign , the operator and trainer heard a loud bang which startled the operator . the operator reported some pain in lower left back after the event had occurred . operator was seen by a nurse practitioner and placed employee off work .
an unplanned roof fall occurred at spad # 2485. fall was in the number 4 and number 5 entry . ventilation was not altered , passage of persons was not altered . all entrances to fall were breakered off . area will not be rehabilitated . fall measured length 50 ' , width 20 ' , height 6 ' .
hanging bottom roller , had bracket on one side while crawling under belt . bracket came off , striking him on side of knee .
after employee completed grinding a weld on a handrail with a 4 '' grinder , he raised his face shield and a small debris particle came off the faceshield , went between his eyebrow and glasses and got is his left eye . he missed one day of work for a doctor's exam to check his eye . he was treated and he was prescribed eye drops . there is no permanent damage to the left eye .
one miner was entrapped on the miracle run elevator for approximately   2 hours . the rails the car runs on experienced seasonal expansion which caused the safety circuit to trip on the car . schindler elevator services corrected the issue .
cleaning cement dust in finish mill bldg . knocked dust down and landed in face . washed eyes out several times at the plant , irritation continued. took employee to the emergency room . for complete washing . employee saw doctor , local optometrist the next day , follow-up .
man standing on rotor-cleaning boulders and mud from between the rotor and crusher backwall . when rotor broke free and started to rotate , he started to step off rotor when he got foot caught .
employee filed for hearing loss . rec notice 7/26/02 . last day worked 9/6/01 .
employee was installing a new chain sprocket on the digger drive . after the completion of the project , employee felt pain in his right hip . plant manager was not notified of injury until 3/15/2006 . employee was seen by doctor and recommended to have mri and be seen by surgeon . employee underwent surgery on 3/21/2005 for herniated disc .
he was located near the coal rib approximately   12 ' outby the last row of bolts in the 3 left cross-cut when a rib rolled and struck him from behind . the rib consisted of coal and rock was 65 '' high . the   piece that is believed to have struck him was from behind . the rib consisted of coal and rock was 65 '' high . the piece that is believed to have struck him was approximately   15 '' x 8 '' x 115 '' . there were
the roof fall occurred at 140 block on number 15 belt in cross-cut 5 to 4 spad number 2913 the fall did not block any airways or travelways . we supported all entrances to fall and dangered fall off . we will not clean fall up . dimensions 18' wide x 70 ' long x 10 ' high .
employee stated while loading belt structure , he felt burning pain in his upper groin area .
south 4 , 1 entry , 4 block , mobile mining unit 005 , 3-way intersection . 90 ft long x 17 ft wide x 8 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , roof mats , cable bolts . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
a fully trained miner was lifting a jack when employee felt pain in groin area . the injury was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
employee was riding in bucket of ram car the car bounced on bottom of mine and employee hit the top bruised back and pelvis
employee was removing drill cab door preparing machine for highway travel . door slipped as it was being placed on machine causing a laceration of approximately 1 '' in employee's left palm .
employee was helping the electrical dept . pull wires through a conduit along the side of number 4894 conveyor belt . the wires hung up then came loose . as the wires came loose employee stepped back to maintain his balance . employee's   foot hit a belt support beam on the ground causing him to fall backwards . the sudden slack int he rope that was attached to the wires that were being pulled through the conduit caus
employee was walking while carrying a battery bell connector and a 20 ' piece of battery lead wire and felt a sharp pain in back . employee started missing work 8/11/2016 .
employee was helping to install a tilt cylinder on a komatsu loader . as he was trying to align the cylinder with the mounting bracket it was moved by the boom truck operator and he stated he was jolted , causing pain in his lower back . employee continued to work until 3-22-11 .
employee was unloading crib blocks as he picked on up and tossed it , he caught his right hand between a block and a pipe and mashed his right hand
tooth for a 992-c bucket slid off root falling 4 1/2 ' landing on the employee 6 ft behind steel toe area .
employee was roofbolting . a bolt bent and slipped off canopy hitting the employee above the right eyebrow causing a concussion .
employee was stepping down from the bumper of the service truck and slipped , twisting his knee . employee tried to finish his shift , but couldn't due to the pain . he then went to the boone memorial hospital where he was referred to a specialist . he then met with the specialist on august 28 , 2008. he was put off work until september 2 , 2008. he was diagnosed as having a bruised bone .
at 8:00am a roof fall was found at number 1 east main , number 5 entry one cross-cut inby . distance from the active face is approximately 4000 feet in the intake . size of fall is approximately 50 feet long by 20 feet wide and 5 feet thick . the fall was breakered off . these works were developed in 1994 .
while lifting a section of grating , employee felt a pain in his abdomen . note - no restrictions , no lost time until corrective surgery , many medical   exams .
the employee was climbing up and down off the boom foot and sections to use an optic scope for leveling . the employee began to complain of pain in his groin area .
employee has complaints of a sore left wrist due to operating a loader .
employee was welding beside another welder and the other welder arced his welder , causing injured employee's left eye to get severe burns .
2 employees were positioning two drainage pipes to join together . in the process of aligning and joining , one employee had his finger caught . the impact resulted in a laceration and fracture to his right ring finger ( last joint at fingernail ) .
employee was using a 6 '' angle grinder to cut a lifting eye from a steel beam when the cutting disc of the grinder broke causing the employee to lose control of the grinder . the grinder fell back onto the employees left arm causing lacerations to the arm .
injured worker ( injured worker ) was changing screens in vibratory screen deck . injured worker was laying on screen media while using a pry bar to remove screen from fastening rail . the pry bay slipped from under screen media and opposite end struck injured worker in the forehead .
while bleeding water line , it came apart striking shoulder . this was a notice only claim until 12/4/17 when employee began missing work .
employee exited road grader that was being used to grade road areas after a significant snowfall . upon exiting the grader he slipped onto ice and broke a rib ( s ) . surface had snow/ice . he did not fall onto anything other than the ground .
west mains 11 entry , 29 block , mobile mining unit 002 , 3-way intersection . 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 8 ' high . support : 6 ' 3/4 '' resin bolts . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall .
employee was sawing through a water line with a hacksaw when the saw slipped and struck his left hand , resulting in a laceration that required 2 stitches . employee did not lose any time as a result of this incident   .
employee was helping to install   v   belts on a heavy media sump pump and while installing the belts he got his finger caught . protective gloves were not being worn .
employee was assisting in changing out screen decks . they were placing this deck into the upper slot when the employee injured left shoulder .
employee was moving   i   beam on a trolley . trapped hand between moving   i   beam and and stationary   i   beam .
number 4 entry roof fall just inby 5867 station . a shuttle car was caught cross-cut 4-3 and 4 man personnel carrier inby in number 4 .
employee received surgery to repair a right rotator cuff tear on 3/30/07 . he began losing time his next scheduled shift on 4/3/07 . there was no specific incident that resulted in his condition . his treating physician states that the rotator cuff tear was a result of his employee as a mechanic in underground coal mines .
employee was raising belt structure at 20 block on 1-south belt . he was using a `` bumper '' jack . while doing so , the jack slipped out allowing structure to drop . he had his right index finger pinched between a belt chain and belt hanger , while adjusting the slack .
employee slipped while dismounting from an endloader .
employee was washing out a repulper screw that was stopped up . as he started washing , he inhaled aqua ammonia vapors from the product .
while loading a hangup in a drawpoint , rocks started to fall . in the process of exiting the drawpoint , the employee tripped over a rock and twisted his left ankle , resulting in a sprain .
employee was using a saw to cut a granite stone . the stone twisted out of employee's hands , causing his right hand to slide into the saw blade . he received a cut between his thumb and first digit of his right   hand . possible nerve involvement .
employee was struck on lip by continued miner conveyor chain link
employee was putting together water line for the continuous miner with a banding tool . his right hand slipped and his right pinky finger was caught between the water line and the banding tool while the hammer was coming down . he mashed his pinky resulting in an open wound , loss of nail , and bone was broken at the tip of the finger . no lost work days . returned to normal work activity .
employee was sitting on a 12 '' block welding on parts in front of him . he went to reposition himself and lost his balance falling onto his left side . the left side of his midsection struck a rock as he landed .
employee stated he injured his back while sweeping the floor . he also stated he had been cutting wood at home which may have contributed to injury . he suffered upper back muscle spasms .
inside coal mill number 2 line removing lower skirt . after loosening skirt employee rotated skirt around to the door . employee tried to lift skirt while lying on side . lost time - return to work date unknown . possible recur of old back injury of 1/4/01 . chiropractor care began 8/29/01 .
employee reported soreness in right wrist from repetitive motion cleaning sieves in quality control lab . report only at this time . visited doctor on june 9 and was put on restricted duty .
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers compensation division for carpal tunnel syndrome .
steel plate was pressed down and tacked in place . employee then took position on top of plate to continue welding . while sitting on plate performing job duties , the tacks failed causing a sudden release of stored energy jarring employee's lower back . employee did not start feeling pain until 2/20/07 and requested to be taken to the clinic .
while working on setting new head drive on number 3 section employee was helping pulling new belt through drive rollers when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on left arm near his elbow resulting in 7 sutures to close .
alleged incident was to have occurred while this employee and his coworker were attempting to raise the bottom belt up . cause of this injury was overexertion , improper lifting . compliance with   rules/regulations a factor ; miner proficiency a factor . safety equipment not a factor ; mining equipment/systems could be a factor .
employee sprained his right knee in the number 4 heading while marking centers , when he stepped on a rock . he continued to work until the doctor took him off on 10/23/08 for arthroscopic knee surgery . he started to lose time as of that date .
employee poking through a powershot shot port when he struck his left elbow
employee provoked another employee who punched him causing him to fall on his elbow and back .
a mine mechanic was operating a diesel mantrip along the m5 travelway when it appears the vehicle struck the coal rib and rolled on its side . the mechanic was partially ejected from the ride and the canopy fell on employee chest .
employee was descending dozer . employee stepped from dozer to stepladder . the ladder went sideways . employee tried to catch self by grabbing hose on the dozer's lift cylinder , but employee's hand slipped , causing employee to hit the left side of head against the dozer filter and fell to the ground .
two unintentional roof falls were discovered on 5-9-03 the first fall was located in entry number   6 near spad no 1405. the fall measured 4 1/2 ' in height by 20 ' in length by 20 ' in width . the second   was in entry no 7 near spad no 1429. it was 4 1/2 ' height by 20 ' width by 20 ' length . both falls happened approximately 3:00 pm .
employee was in the process of loading up the back of service truck # 1142. as the employee stepped down off of the back of the truck , employee's left foot slipped off of the step and caught employee's right foot on the top step . this caused employee's right ankle to twist before employee stepped on the ground . the employee suffered a right ankle sprain .
employee was tightening bolt , the bolt broke and the employee dropped the wrench on his hand .
the shuttlecar reel was broken that winds the cable up . employee was moving the car while the operator of the car was pulling the cable . when employee exited the shuttle car , injury to his left knee occurred .
employee was hooking his welder leads up , it grounded out . the brass connector blew up and put 2 pieces of brass into his left eye .
employee was open/closing air door , latch came down and hit hand , causing an open fracture to the left hand pinky finger . employee was transported by light vehicle to renown in reno where surgery was required to pin the fracture . employee unable to return to the mine site until after follow-up on 02/17/17 .
employee was driving a mac 3 at break 65 and hit a rock in roadway . the steering wheel on the mac 3 twisted his left arm .
while driving to casteel with road marked as an escape route . road had been shot out and not properly barricaded , allowing employee to drive off of an 8 ' bluff in chest deep water . employee hurt leg and knee . he was taken to county doctor and to an orthopedic specialist . he is now off work beginning 7/3/06 waiting for knee surgery .
employee struck hammer against metal a piece flew off striking employee's thumb
employee was crawling out from underneath a feeder .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred at the 43 cross-cut of the 2nd main east extending to the 44 cross-cut in the number 3 entry . the fall was approximately 60 feet in length and approximately 7 feet high and 16 feet wide . the fall was timbered and dangered out .
miner was drilling and drilled into a water course . water washed out of the hole and washed mud into the miners ' eyes .
driver had reaction to spray used at home . we called mine safety and health administration 800 phone number , were told to complete this form . driver is fine , was back at work following day .
while unloading sono tube fiber forms from truck , strained right arm .
employee was loading 42 inch belt framing from the ground into a trailer . during this process he felt a pain in his back . he left the mine , later sought medical attention and began to miss work on 1/4/07 .
employee was installing a 40 ft long - 6 '' diameter alum . pipe across length of sump . he was raising one end of pipe to top of high wall in sump , while he was standing on loose rock that was wet . his foot slid and he received a slight muscle sprain to his neck muscle .
employee was changing bits when draw rock fell out and struck him on head and shoulders .
employee was troubleshooting a furuwaka dcr 20 drill and finger was caught between moving parts . employee received a finger laceration requiring sutures . employee was wearing cut protective gloves but the impact cut through the gloves .
noise induced hearing loss . date of diagnosis 8019092. date diagnosis received 9-18-02 .
employee crawled under scalping screen to tighten belt when he did this he felt a sting in his back
a roof fall occurred on this date . the fall measured 18 ' by 25 ' and was 6 ' in thickness . the fall was located in the number 1 entry of b-4 mains between breaks 4 and 5. ventilation was not affected . the area was previously supported by 5 ' high-tech bolts and 12 ' cable bolts .
employee stumbled forward . as employee was falling , employee grabbed onto a mixer to catch self and strained right shoulder .
employee was cleaning a chute with a jack hammer . material broke free and that caused the jack hammer to fall against his finger smashing it . he was wearing gloves at the time of the accident   .
on 07/11/2018 while doing routine shop maintenance the employee realized something was in employee's eye . employee attempted to wash employee's eye out but did not report the incident . on 07/12/2018 employee went to the doctor who removed a piece of dirt from employee's eye . the employee was not wearing employee's safety glasses .
employee was moving impact rollers from a pallet to a storage rack when one of the rollers moved rolling on top of left hand . employee pulled employee's hand out and felt a pop and pain in the wrist . evaluated by physician and returned to work with restrictions .
employee was walking to a barge pump and tripped over a clod of dirt . this resulted in a sore ankle . employee continued to work without restriction . he was examined by a doctor who found no problem . employee continued   to report soreness in his ankle and was seen by a specialist on 10/24/03 . no tears or fractures were noted on x-rays or on mri . we were notified today that employee is receiving physical therapy . now reportable
a roof fall in the west panel number 1 cross-cut number 4 entry measuring approximately 40 ' x 18 ' x 6 ' . the area was mine in june 2002 and supported with 6 '' tension rebar roof bolts . the fall was caused by a hidden   slip in the mine roof .
employee was working on the 121 pump . while lifting a section of pipe with a come-along , the cover for the 121 pump's leg gave way , causing cover to fall .
a roof fall occurred in the number   3 entry of the 3rd panel west off the submain north at spad 44+33 ( belt entry ) . the fall was approximately 80 ' long x 17 ' wide x 10 ' high .
employee was changing out a tail roller and a ratchet slipped and hit him in lower lip . 2 sutures .
two mechanics were straightening the flange on a cooler tube elbow . our mechanic was using a rosedub to heat the flange and the other mechanic was striking it with a sledgehammer . when striking the flange the hammer had did not catch the flange fully and continued the swing around and struck the other mechanic who was standing too close in the forehead . he received a laceration contusion
employee was splicing a cable at the time of this incident . he was using a hammer type crimper and when he swung a 3 lb . hammer at the crimper he missed and struck his thumb instead . this action split his thumb open causing a laceration that required stitches to repair .
employee alleges he was climbing down the ladder and stepped into a hole twisting his left knee as he was turning to walk .
employee was plastering a stopping with b bond . employee developed a rash on his right wrist/ forearm area .
the miner was standing over a 3 '' discharge water line from a diesel powered pump . the discharge water line had a small leak in it . when the line became pressurized , it tore striking the miner in the left knee .
unintentional roof fall 6th north panel number 5 entry . 18' long x 18' wide x 7' high . bolted with 6 ' tr bolts , covered up bolt structure , will be cleaned up .
employee slipped and fell while getting out of komatsu 500 front end loader . laceration above ear .
employee sprained his right ankle when he stepped on a piece of metal when walking down a concrete walkway .
employee was washing salt inside shaft about 580 ' from collar . while moving spray gun his left arm was hit by a loose piece of salt from above . fractured left arm . started losing time 2-7-06 .
employee was confirmed with a 10 db hearing shift with over 25 db hearing loss in both ears .
employee alleges injured back shoveling rock . he stated felt pain after 10-15 shovels of rock . the employee at work 35 minutes and this was first labor on-shift . the employee stated , he has a bad back , he was treat and released at hospital   emergency room and scheduled to see orthopaedic spec and mri . diagnosis states has 5 bulging disk and that physical   therapy and anti-inflammatory drugs are prescription , followed by doctor visit
the employee was using a utility knife to cut a fan belt when the blade contacted the palm of his left hand causing a laceration . the laceration required 13 stitches .
employee stepped up onto the lunch table area to get a nozzle for a foam pack . as he stepped off the lunch table area , he put his left foot down upon a cable that other employee's were pulling through the kitchen   area to a power center to be nipped in . as he stepped own from the table area , he placed his foot upon a cable which in turn rolled his foot out , twisting his ankle , falling forward to
employee alleges that on her 1st load on 7-25-00 , she hit a hole in the 30 pit causing her to bounce in the seat . employee alleges that she was wearing her seatbelt at the time . employee did not report this incident   on her time card nor did she advise her supervisor that she had sustained an injury until 1200 noon on 7-26-00. employee received a restricted duty release for 7-27-00 but on 8-1-00 doctor would
employee stated that while walking down an incline , near mine office , he slipped on some gravel and twisted his left knee .
the employee was hanging ventilation tubing when a wire broke , and 2 joints of tubing fell striking him on the head .
employee states he has a contusion to his left elbow . the only event he can remember is he slipped and fell in the truck , landing on his elbow on 6-20-02 .
employee was using a pry bar to dislodge a piece of scrap steel . when it would not come loose , he started to walk around to the other side to pry on it again , when the steel broke free and landed on his left foot . employee was wearing steel toed boots .
foreman was making up roofbolts when draw rock struck him in lower back .
employee was rerouting the miner cable on the miner . he lifted the miner nip onto the back of the mantrip and felt a sharp pain in the center of his stomach . went to doctor on 4/30/09 and was placed on restrictions .
employee was performing scheduled maintenance on 35665 truck . he was loosening the drain plug and while doing so , he struck a torsion bar with his right elbow . he was released to full duty on 11-29-02 .
employee states the while egressing off a utility loader employee had back pain . when employee was asked if employee jumped or fell employee stated it was a normal dismount with 3 points of contact . on 3/16/18 employee was diagnosed with a back strain and placed on restrictions .
employee was moving a slab of stone to be split when he pinched his left middle finger between the stone he was moving and an adjacent stationary block of stone . he sustained a laceration and fracture to his finger . physician instructions : no work till re-evaluation on 11-11-05 .
rock fall spad number 1850 6 left section number 6 entry . 50 ft x 20 ft x 5 ft .
injured person is not a direct employee of omega surface mining , llc . employee is a truck driver employed by a contractor to haul coal from omega's jobsite . employee came to the jobsite and got out of employee's truck to see if employee's truck bed was clear ; employee slipped and fell on ice injuring employee's left hip .
employees finger was caught in a rotating jack leg steel , causing a tendon to break and six stitches to be issued to close a cut on his right little finger .
the employee threw the off spec chute . when the kiln got back on spec , the employee had to pull the chute back up in order for the material to go to the stockpile . when the employee threw the chute , he pulled a muscle in the middle of his back .
he was walking along beltlines and ran into the emergency stop cable eyelet with his right shoulder . please note : did not seek medical attention until 11/29/01 .
a roof fall occurred on unit 1 ( mobile mining unit 0010 ) in the cross-cut between number 4 and number 5 entries at the 5330 ' station . height -- 3-4.5 ' , width 16.75 ' , length -- 31 ' .
miner was cleaning out kiln 4 preheater with a jackhammer when he strained his right shoulder .
employee was washing the chute and had left arm over the chute when the platform employee was standing on broke and employee's left arm got caught on the top of the chute .
maintenance person removed gloves while attempting to fasten screen above a belt guard . this person caught his hand in the expanded metal screen , cutting the index finger which required 5 stitches . employee released to regular work duty by attending physician ( no restriction ) .
employee was working in clinker storage area . he slipped several times on loose clinker . the repeated slipping aggravated a previous back injury . he did not report injury until 5/22/02 .
employee was clearing dust collector pipes , when employee was clearing the pipe the tipping valve started moving and hit employee above the left brow causing a laceration that required medical attention . the laceration was closed and employee placed on modified duty .
employee was pulling a 100 lb   propane bottle onto the elevator , had the bottle tipped at an angle to clear the lip of the threshold when the safety guard employee was using to pull the bottle came off and the bottle fell striking left leg and lacerating thigh . employee had 8 stitches , a tetanus shot and prophylactic antibiotics prescribed .
stacking landscape rock , strained groin . employee heard a pop - belly button hernia . employee did not report to supervisor until 2/16/04 .
mucker bucket caught on rib left side pinning employee between mucker and rib
employee believed airlock was plugged . he did not de-energize machine . did not use lock out procedure . employee removed a plate from the chute and stuck his hand into the discharge chute . his hand contracted the energized airlock and finger ( 3 ) were cut off .
employee was jacking up a flat car and as employee was in the motion of standing up employee felt a pop in the right knee . employee then went to raleigh general after the shift ended and it was determined employee needed an mri . mri results showed a torn meniscus on 5-20-16. note : injury report was received on 5-20-16 .
employee states that while working on the p5b motor , he was cutting electrical tape with his pocket knife . he slipped , cutting his left wrist .
employee was cleaning out conex and tripped over a pallet falling on his hand causing pain in his wrist .
employee stepped down out of fuel truck onto a rock twisting his right ankle / foot . note : employee was not put in a walking boot until 5/4/11 due to x-ray was unable to be read by the doctor due to swelling .
employee stepped off ladder of 793 haul truck into a hole and strained his knee . uneven ground
employee was using a hammer on a piece of metal , rust flew into his right eye .
injured employee was operating bobcat loader , placing rock in dump truck bed . a rock rolled backwards out of bucket into operator's compartment , striking employee on right lower leg , lacerating it . three sutures were required to close the wound .
on 11/3/15 the mine operator was informed that the employee could no longer work at full duty due to a partial tear of the anterior cruciate ligament in the left knee . on 10/22/15 the employee jumped from a ladder as the ladder was struck by a 28-inch ventilation tube elbow which was pushed into the ladder by a rib roll .
employee was lifting a 50 lb bag of material when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . possible muscle strain in the right upper arm and shoulder .
employee was using cutting torch to cut a piece of metal . the metal was not secured and after it was cut it fell off the bench onto employee's right foot . employee had x-ray and returned to regular duties on 1/13/06 . employee called in on 2/13/06 , stating he was having problems with his foot . 2/13/06 would be the first day lost due to his injury . release form is on file for 1/13/06 .
employee was placed on light duty restrictions after his neck was jarred by a large ore chunk being dropped into the box of his production truck . employee on restrictions from 3/31/00 to date and physical therapy has been ordered .
employee was unsetting a heater tube into # 5-2 vertical heater . routinely , a 30 lb rivet gun is mounted on the trailing end of the tube to help drive the tube in . the tube got stuck and employee used a pair of pliers to twist the tube in an effort to get it moving . the tube dropped approximately   3 ' and pinched employee's right hand between the rivet gun and heater baffle . fractured right   ring finger . employee is on
the employee was positioned outby the 2nd row of bolts and was bolting the top in the number 3 left cross-cut . when the atrs was lowered , a piece of roof rock fell and struck his foot .
an unintentional roof fall was found on 6/9/2017 at approximately 11:30am . the fall was in the high voltage entry at break 224 approximately 1 break outby spad 5357. the approximate dimensions of the fall are 20'x&nbsp; 20' x 7 '
miner was climbing up a raise to clean down muck from previous blast . miner was up about 30 feet on the ladder when ladder swung away from the rib . ladder had loosened up from precious blast and allowed muck to fall from above about 8 feet and struck miner on left shoulder , arm , and back . 12/17/12 placed on authorized time loss until mri in 2 weeks .
member was in the deck operating the bolter . he went to reposition himself and stuck his hand on top of the canopy to pull himself up and hit the tram . the bolter moved , smashing his right hand into the top . member immediately ceased to work and was taken by ambulance to charlston area medical center general where he was told his right hand/middle finger had to be amputated .
employee was installing roof bolts in top , when roof bolt plate slid down roof bolt , hitting operator on left arm , cutting his left forearm .
a roof fall occurred in the travelway ( number 5 entry ) 140 feet inby survey station 156. the fall was approximately 40 feet long x 18 feet wide x 4 feet high .
employee was welding sparks caught pant leg on fire and burned his left leg . 1st and 2nd degree burns .
employee rolled ankle while dismounting dozer . physician prescribed limited use of ankle .
removing spitzer from mill with chipping hammer , when a metal fragment came off hammer , penetrating employee's right middle finger .
while exiting a man-lift basket , employee claims employee stepped and slipped on a rock on the ground . employee had no pain to right knee , until mid day same day .
roof fall discovered on the north mains , outby section and loading points . development date : november 2006 , 300 ft coverage . area bolted with 6 ft double lock bolts - 7/8 '' diameter , grade 75 , 8 x 8 inch roof plates with roof mat installed . fall : 16 ft wide x 16 ft long x 10 ft high . no injuries , no equip involved , no ventilation or escapeway blockage . notification made within 15 minutes .
on 7/25/02 the miner put a garbage bag into a dumpster and felt a pain . on 11/4/02 he began losing time .
12 '' driscoplex pipe was being pulled by utility vehicle . employee was standing next to parked dodge truck . as pipe cleared dodge truck it quickly slid over and struck employee on lower left leg .
employee had completed repairs on haul truck . employee was in the process of removing a 150 ton rated jack and cribbing out from under the truck . in the process employee lost control of the jack and pinched finger . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
when employee stepped off pinner , he stepped in a puddle of oil left by miner and strained his right knee .
as b shaft skip hoist was leaving the pocket , damage occurred resulting in the hoist being inoperable for more than 30 minutes .
employee was steam cleaning the steady rest for the leblond lathe . when he finished one side , he was in the process of turning it over when it fell onto his left hand index finger . steady rest weighed approximately   200 lbs .
employee was going to empty the dumpster at the dryer . he was looking up at the belt and watching the poles that hold the belt up . when the slide shift of the forklift hit a pole his right thumb got hung in the steering wheel . his body went forward and it pushed his shoulder back . he went to doctor and first aid only 5-5-01 after work . became reportable 7/27 went he took of for surgery . est 6-8 we
employee was changing bags in a dust collector got fugitive dust in eye . employee was wearing safety goggles over his safety glasses at the time .
employee was un-banding precut structural steel . when the bands were cut , the steel shifted and a piece landed on the top of the employees foot . fracture of third metatarsal bone of right foot .
employee was using a 59 lb jackhammer when he felt a pain in his left elbow . employee had seen his private physician two months ago concerning pain in his elbow and was diagnosed with bursitis . the work compensation doctor said the jackhammer vibration had aggravated a pre-existing condition .
employee was using an electric saw to cut boards for a floor . he set the saw down after making a cut and it jammed up and struck his hand when a small piece of wood dislodged from it while the blade was still spinning .
on a rainy day employee got wet loading a truck then resumed bagging lime . he noticed a burning sensation but didn't take proper precautions resulting in lime burn . employee retrained in preventing lime burns . no loss time would have occurred if properly reported to employer .
employee was working in the welding slop and was grinding the slag of steel . when he set the grinder down on the ground , the wheel was still spinning and it slipped and scraped across his leg , causing   a gash in his leg .
employee bumped his elbow on body of mancarrier . he later noticed fluid on the elbow . he saw the doctor on 11-6-00. fluid was aspirated from the elbow on that date and he was released with no restrictions   .
employee was driving truck , there was a curve at the bottom of the hill ; he was going too fast and the truck landed on its side .
employee was loading items on the cage and pinched hand between cage door and cage . he was seen at the clinic , sutures were required , and he was released to restricted duty .
employee was installing a roof bolt and strap when a piece of draw rock fell striking him on the head and back .
an ignition occurred on the longwall face . methane from horizontal dog as hole ignited .
employee was helping the section electrician service the right continuous miner , when a piece of rock fell out between the rib bolt and the inside bolt , striking him on the right side of his head , neck and arm .
employee was changing the 60 '' belt troughing roll . the roll was dropped and caught employee's hand between the framework and roll .
employee and crew were riding in the mantrip of the surface , at approximately 25 cross-cut on number 3 beltline . operator of the mantrip warned the crew that the brakes were malfunctioning and would not slow the mantrip . at some point on number 3 beltline mr mckinne jumped from the mantrip causing multiple strains and contusions . the mantrip derailed in curve at number 2 beltdrive striking number 1 beltline
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the millennium portal , at the 4n longwall tailgate ( 3 north headgate entry number 1 @ 914 north , cross-cut 18 ( blocked tailgate ) ) . the fall's length , width and thickness are unknown . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will not be cleaned up .
mechanic failed to disable fan while guards were off . when proceeding to do maintenance work , fan caught left thumb result in cut that required one stitches and prescription for pain .
employee was replacing spray bars on the float cells over an extended period of time ( 2-3 weeks ) . at home , on the night of 4/6/01 he developed a rash on his body . the following day he developed an anaphylactic   reaction .
employee was moving the chocks on a radial stacker and was bumped by another employee who was operating the skid steer . employee thought employee was ok but employee went to the doctor the next day and had a hairline fracture to one rib .
employee stated operating a mine pickup truck along the mine travelway . bumped his head against an object along the mine roof when adjacent to cross-cut   54 of the 1st . main south supply entry . unsure of what he struck .
employee stepped on cross beam to gain advantage to see over conveyor belt ; foot slipped and he jerked his arm exasperating a preexisting non-work related shoulder injury he was being seen for .
employee was fixing feed chain , hand slipped while pulling chain , hitting hand on feed rail . laceration to right wrist requiring 8 staples .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the intersection between number 7 and number 8 entries in the return airway 800 ' outby the section located at spad number 2613 . the fall measured 25' long x 25' wide x 6-7 ' thick . the airway or travel is not affected by this fall .
employee was pulling shields using infared system . he was bent over looking at number 161 shield to see why it didn't pull all the way in . he stood up with his back to number 160 shield when it started to pull because he did not pause the system . the shearer op noticed it so he hit the quick-stop . however , the shieldman had right foot pinned under the pontoon and partially between pontoon and relay bar .
employee was putting a battery on a john deere excavator when the battery suddenly blew up . the employee received initial evaluation on the day of occurrence for ringing in ears and given no diagnosis . employee was referred to an audiologist for evaluation .
employee was installing a 10 ' section of 12 inch screw conveyor housing when it slipped , pinching his right   index finger between the housing and a 2 '' flange .
employee , injured , and coworkers had completed placing four ( 4 ) dragline bucket teeth on the shoe of the dragline . employee was in process of scooting them back when one tooth shifted , catching the top portion of his little finger on his right hand . he sustained a mashing type injury along with a broken bone .
employee was bending a roof bolt to put in top when it slipped and spun around . the bearing plate caught employee arm lacerating it
three employee were grouting pillars in a-4 pillar area , when the 3/4 '' grout hose became plugged with hard cement . the hose blew apart int he employee's right hand spraying cement in his right and left eyes   . employee was taken to doctor where they washed out his eyes doctor referred employee to doctor an optometrist in farmington . employee was diagnosed with severe irritation to both eyes . which were bandaged a follow up visit
employee opened the electrical panel door and was shocked . employee then fell back hitting a vice attached to a work bench dislocating employee's shoulder . employee had burns to employee's right middle and ring finger and dislocated employee's left shoulder .
employee was attempting to make a road around a stock pile and when scraping with the 240 volvo loader he hit a rock causing the loader to stop quickly and the employee to injure his back . employee has suffered a sprain to his back
employee was using hand held knife and sharpening tool improperly . he was not keeping his eyes on task , slashing knife across the back of his hand . cut forefinger and thumb of left hand needing sutures .
50 lb bag of dust busted and was going down belt line , employee tried to remove bag and caught right hand in conveyor .
he was placing a stone on a pallet and the stone slipped and crushed his middle finger on his left hand . the finger was cut badly requiring 4 stitches .
body motion -- employee was trying to move power cable for the es17 while pulling cable he felt pain in shoulder area .
the three men were in the process of replacing a worn pipe in the prep plant at the time of this incident had removed a 27 '' x 33 '' piece of metal grating from the floor . coworker was cutting the   bolts out of the old pipe and injured was watching him . he asked injured to get him a wrench . he turned forgetting the hole and walked into it . he apparently fell forward struck his chest on
an unplanned explosion of coal dust occurred in the tilden 1 raymond coal mill .
employee was air arching on frame crack on haul truck and received eye injury by metal splinter . employee was wearing proper personal protective equipment for the job .
employee stepped off stairway after descending stair onto uneven floor and the left ankle rolled .
the employee was operating the track bolter and sugar run . as the employee   lowered the drill pot the pot contacted a stored drill stem . the stem flipped upwards and contacted the employee   in the mouth , chipped and broke front tooth .
employee was carrying grate from number 2 cooler and one dropped on right foot . contusion of right foot .
roof fall occurred on the number 6 belt line . fall was approximately 5 ft thick 20 ' wide 30 ' long .
employee was climbing down a ladder at gravel plant . employee slipped and fell backwards 3-4 ft to the ground . employee was taken to doctor to check bruised arm .
employee was carrying a leaf spring for the p135 pick up to the front of the pit in the automotive bay of the shop . employee went to set the leaf spring underneath the p135 pick up when employee felt a pain and burning sensation in left shoulder . leaf spring weighed approximately 50 - 60 lbs .
employee was driving a spad in the rib to hang wire for cables on number 2 unit in number 5 entry when he hit the top causing a piece of top to fall out and hit him in the side of his left foot . this resulted in a hire line fracture of his foot .
during a clinker breaker choke , employee climbed fixed ladder to check load on cooler . when employee stepped down , he stumbled and fell against railing , hyperextending his little finger . was checked by physician - possibly flexor tendon rupture . regular duty initially , expect restricted duty after surgery - 2 days restricted prior to surgery , 8 days lost after surgery , returned to work with restrictions .
the employee was climbing down off the clay shed ladder after a hose had come loose .
employee was assisting in changing a large pump in the wash plant , as he was aligning flange and bolt holes he placed his right little finger into a bolt hole , the flange move and caught his finger causing a laceration to the tip of the finger .
the injured stepped in a hole as he was putting supply cars in a switch and he felt pain in his left knee . he finished his shift . when he returned for his next shift he tried to work but he felt pain in his left knee and went to the hospital to be examined and didn't return to work . an mri was performed on 7/24 and it was determined that he had a ligament tear in his knee .
employee was installing repaired lift cylinder on a 750 john deere trackhoe he positioned a ladder against the boom of the excavator as the cylinder was lifted up and close enough for him to reach the ladder started to slide along the boom of the excavator he then lost his balance and fell and struck the rear bumper of service truck resulting in pain to left shoulder
a roof fall was discovered while walking the return air course with inspectors . the fall measured 33 ' x 17 1/2 ' x 5 ' thick . it fell in number 2 entry at cross-cut 27 in the 1 west return . the roof was weakened   by dripping water . it did not block people , equipment or air .
employee was climbing down a ladder and his foot slipped and he struck his left shoulder and neck against an air duct pipe on the 50 '' mill
was guiding a gear box down the tipple hill . the gear box got lodged on some rocks . when the gear box was dislodged , it came down on his right foot and smashed it . it is bruised up and possible fractured .
employee was stepping through a man door at 5 west number 2 block belt stopping . employee stepped on a piece of steel cable causing him to slip . felt pain in left knee and right hip .
a roof fall measuring 20 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7' high occurred in panel 4 off of panel 1 submains . 2500 ' outby active 005 mobile mining unit ( 003 section ) in number 3 entry at spad # 8870. area was bolted with 6 ' tt bolts .
crusher jaw got jammed - we de-energized , performed all log out/tag out procedures and started removing jammed rocks . employee , while removing rocks , smashed finger when employee hit the side while holding the rock , causing laceration that required stitches .
a roof fall was found at 5 am on 1-16-01 at cross-cut 4.5 on main south travel way entry # 2. area was mined in 1982 and was pinned with 6-8 ' full resin pins . additional support of 6 '' steel had been added   . steel legs had deteriorated causing roof to fail . area measured 10 ' by 10 ' by 4 ' high . this will be cleaned and resupported .
employee struck in lower back with overshot when driller pulled the wireline control instead of rotation control . overshot pulled up to the pulley at top of mast and wireline broke . overshot fell on deck and bounced striking employee in back .
employee was rigging to turn screen right side up and lacerated his left middle index finger
roof fall occur in number 4 entry on number 3 belt 2000 feet from section . area was breakered off and dangered off in all locationan and will not be rehabilitated .
employee was picking up tongue on rail truck and pulled muscles in his back . he worked until friday , missed friday and saturday .
employee was changing screens on the 4 x 12 shaker . a screen became wedged and while he was attempting to pull it loose , he injured his left wrist and arm .
at approximately   11:50 two miners working near rail loading facility noticed a private car enter facility   and proceeded to travel between our rail and burlington northern main line . car became stuck on the tracks . driver got out of the car and off the tracks just before train struck his car .
the dredge chain was struck and employee and injured was prying on the chain to put it back it back into its track . as employee was prying on it injured was watching it to make sure it was going back   into its track . the prybar slipped and struck injured on the left eye eyebrow .
employee is a splitter operator at the chilton quarry indoor within the chilton manufacturing facility . employee was assembling boxes . employee put a nail in one section followed with a second nail . the nail gun then jumped and landed on top of employee's left hand . when the gun hit employee's hand , a nail fired into the top of employee's left hand as employee's finger was still on the trigger .
hoistman started at 5:50 am to test number 31 hoist and could only lower hoist . when he tried to reset power it wouldn't reset . mine safety and health administration was called at 6:25 am and told the hoist was down . we didn't have   anyone under fond at the time . the electricians found a fault in the upper hoist limit switch and repaired it . the hoist was returned to service at 7:05 am same day and mine safety and health administration was called and
employee was repairing dragline . dug three foot hole , while climbing into hole , he slipped and twisted left knee .
employee was working under a haul truck . when he crawled out and tried to stand up he stepped on a rock and twisted his ankle .
employee carried a 5 gal . jug of hydraulic oil up to an overhead conveyor , approximately   1 hour later he felt pain in his left shoulder .
employee was rock dusting around the belt head when material fell from the top into his eye . employee did not miss work or notify employer of accident until 3-12-01 .
the employee was roof bolting in the number 1 entry on mobile mining unit . number   003 section . the employee was using a wrench to beat a insert into another piece of steel while beating the steel he missed and hit his hand resulting in severe swelling .
employee was trying to reposition an i beam when he got his finger caught between it and another i beam .
picked up a box weighing approximately 120 lbs and carried it from the office to the back of service truck . when employee lifted it onto the tail shelf , had a sharp pain in his lower back .
employee was throwing scrap material into a dumpster when he turned around he tripped and fell onto two brake disc . the employee struck his left knee on the brake disc .
employee is section scoop operator . after scooping ribs in a bolted place , he got off scoop to shovel out offset in rib . a piece of rock measuring 1/2 '' thick by 2 ' long fell from offset , hitting employee on the back .
had a rock fall in intersection inby spad number 2 breaks inby 1126 .
installing 400 lb . piece of metal when it caught , came loose while my hand was behind it crushing my finger .
a roof fall occurred at the number 3 return entry of north mains 70' inby ss number 1489 . the fall measured 20' x 30' x 9 ' . no equipment was involved . the ventilation was not disturbed . no injury occurred and the   fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was driving down ramp when the vehicle hit a bump causing the employee to hit head on the roof of the vehicle , bite down , and break a tooth . tooth number 7 extracted , no other treatment , returned to work on 5/5/17 with no limitations .
employee was straightening steel panels on a forklift . the load shifted and smashed his left middle finger resulting in a laceration requiring sutures .
rock fell in the first right bleeder from outside . the rock fell between the blocks of coal 2 breaks above spad 20. it was about 30 '' thick and 20 ' wide . it didn't block the haulway i travel . it was between the 2 travelways up the bleeder .
the electrician had locked out the breaker to the miner while performing tests . he gave the key to the operator and had him to reenergize the breaker . there was shielding wrapped around the cathead and this caused the cathead to be grounded . when the victim engaged the breaker it exploded . burns to his hand and side of his face .
while standing on the rock shelf in c-13 head box cleaning build up with a long hooked rod , employee felt a pain in lower back .
alleged injury is from dumping muck buckets . accident report was not completed until 12-03-02
employee was replacing buckets on the clinker elevator when he knocked bucket loose from chain , lodging bucket between wall and another bucket . when employee tried to dislodge and remove it , bucket dropped and smashed his fingers between buckets requiring sutures .
had power bump lost the power to the 1600 air doors one person could not open the man door due to high pressure agents the door the vr-1 fan did not kick out therefore it took 2 people to open the man door . the main ramp was blocked so mine safety and health administration was notified
employee was building an overcast , laying 6 x 8 x 16 in blocks on the upper wall , a beam twisted and caused metal and miner to fall when employee felt he bruised lower left ribs .
a roof fall was discovered on 002 section in ii 2 hdg 2 breaks outby face . the fall was approximately 35 ' x 20 ' x 9 ' . this fall was bolted with 6 ' torque tension bolts . this area has been cribbed   off . no one was in the area at the time of the fall .
employee was attempting to get the second drill steel extension into the drill chuck . the drill steel kicked back as he was raising the drill head and hit his wrist . cause of this injury was safety awareness and drill head not adjusted properly . compliance with rules/regulations was not a factor , personal protective equipment not a factor , miner knowledge could be a factor , mining equipment a factor .
employee claims to have injured his knee when he placed in on a rock while bolting
employee requested medical treatment on 2/21/18 and was prescribed work restrictions by the occupational physician . the employee alleged that employee stepped on a rock , felt two pops in left knee and felt pain . this is an alleged , unwitnessed questionable event .
while attempting to remove drill steel from chuck , drill steel slipped out striking left eye brow . inattention to activity , awareness are factors .
while exiting loader , employee's foot slipped . while grabbing the loader to stop his fall he felt a pop/twist in his right shoulder . employee did not report incident until 07/24/07 . employee was evaluated at occupational clinic and given restriction of limit above shoulder work . no restrictions effective 07/27/07 .
employee was cleaning out rail car and perlite went into face and into safety glasses into eye .
employee training another employee in the skip pocket when employee was hit in the head with a rock , causing a cervical strain . employee was placed off work pending further testing .
employee alleges he was walking on catwalk , the conveyor stopped and rock had built up in transfer hopper and rocks were released hitting employee's finger .
while changing the slope belt tail roller a steel bar was being used to pull the slack out of the slope belt and allow extra room for changing the tail pulley . the lifting eye attached to one end of the steel bar broke loose and all allowed the bar to swing around and strike the injured employee in the mouth area , causing a lip laceration and knocking out two teeth .
a wire in the electrical control circuit of the elevator became grounded causing the elevator to stop while ascending to the surface . a crew of men were on the elevator for approximately 3 hours . the grounded wire was replaced and the elevator was tested and found to be operating properly .
after completing job of arranging some light fixtures , employee jumped up to try and touch ceiling causing a sprain/strain to his right ankle .
employee was operating a shuttle car when he ran over some coal on the roadway causing him to slide into the coal rib . sprained his lower back .
a fall was discovered in an unbolted intersection last open between number 7 and number 8 entry on number 3 section ~100 ' inby spad # 1946. fall ~19 ' wide x 32 ' long and ranged from 0 '' to 7 - 8 ft thick .
front end loader was being used to separate barge hose from the 10 '' plastic pipe feeding the classifier . the instant it was pulled off , the hose snapped back and hit employee . it bruised the back of his left calf .
employee was lifting the hood on the pc-300 trackhoe in order to check fluids , when he felt a pain in his back . having had back pain from time to time he did not consider it a problem and worked the remainder   of the day .
after bolting a cut , employee stepped onto roof drill of atrs to hang reflectors in the roof bolt plate . the bolter operator dropped the atrs to move the machine . he was caught in a pinch point .
the injured was installing approximately   1 '' thick insulated mat between wet plant attritioner disconnects . he used a utility knife to do the final trim work to fit mat around handrail post . the knife   slipped and cut employee approximately 2 '' above his right knee causing a laceration .
roof fall on track entry one break from spad # 19331. fall was approximately 20 ' x 30 ' by 10 ' thick . fall was bolted with 6 ' double lock bolts .
employee stated he was cutting on the deck of the roof bolter and when he attempted to swing his legs around onto the deck he felt pain in his lower back . employee was taken to the hospital where he was examined   and treated for muscle strain .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the galatia mine new era portal on inby cross-cut 27+3865 ' , 2 west longwall beltline . the fall was approximately 37 feet long , approximately   18 feet wide , and approximately   10 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up .
miner was removing a troughing idler from a conveyor and as the idler was being pulled out from the belt , the idler frame got caught on the miner's lanyard causing him to lose balance . the employee fell approximately 5 feet landing on conveyor and chute work below . 6 stitches to chin some light bruising .
employee was walking near the garbage compaction in unit 4 and got her foot caught in some baling wire and stumbling on felt and pain in her knee .
while removing a dust mask from his face a strap from the mask snapped and coming back and striking employee in the eye . this caused irritation and redness to the effected area
employee was attempting to remove a ripper tip from the d10 dozer . employee was striking the tip with a hammer and a sliver of metal broke off striking employee in the left thigh . employee was taken to the clinic for observation by another employee
north 4 , 64 block , 7 entry , mobile mining unit 002 , 4-way intersection 15 ft long x 10 ft wide x 6 ft high , support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , screen fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall . fall clean-up plan posted .
employee was opening a dust collector door and dust went into his eyes .
fall was located in # 2 entry on south mains in the return , inby break 14 to 15 1/2 . fall was 120' long x 18 ' wide x 5 ' thick . roof support was 5 ' torque tension bolts . mine safety and health administration inspectors investigated the fall .
while making the required weekly exam , the fireboss discovered a roof fall in the return air courses , number 1 entry , 1 break outby spad # 313. the fall was between the block in the entry to was approximately   3 0 ft long x 17 ft wide x 4 1/2 ft thick no equipment were involved .
employee was tugging on the tire on a mechanics truck trying to remove it from the truck . he felt a pain in his lower abdomen/groin area. he is still off work due to hernia .
employee . was working on west tails screen applying silicone on a crack between the poly decks and discharge lip on screen . when he finished he turned around to climb out and twisted his right knee in the process .
the employee stated he was loading supplies on the 410 roof bolter . as he cut the metal band on a bundle of roof bolts , one end of the band struck the employee on the right side of the face around the temporal region . this resulted in a laceration that required 2 sutures .
a roof fall was found during the weekly exam on 3 west return , break . number 62 , in front of the number 2 seal . the fall was approximately   20 ' x 20 ' x 6 ' thick . this area was bolted with 60 '' high-tech bolts and cribs .
employee was unplugging a clean out hole when his gloves was caught by the chain . this resulted in a laceration that required sutures .
sprained shoulder lifting and holding pads for a bohringer crusher
an unplanned roof fall occurred on cross-cut 69 entry 6 main west 1 beltline . the roof fall measured approximately 30 ' in length , 20 ' in width , and 7 ' of thickness . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8433152 ) , was issued on march 16 , 2011 by mine safety and health administration inspector .
employee stated that while hanging screen in the back , his elbow contacted the screen ( while wearing kevlar sleeves ) causing laceration ~ which required sutures . no restrictions issued - no days lost - full release .
operator of car said he steered car around quickly and hit his brake and hit his head on canopy .
employee was walking around the edge of the feeder and slipped and fall and he went to catch himself with his left hand and arm . he strained his left shoulder . he had surgery on his left shoulder on 7/15/10 and he started missing work on the date .
an unplanned roof fall occurred on the coalburg mine on break inby number 532 at break   number 31 , on belt # 18. the fall measured approximately   25' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . no injuries were reported .
while taking apart an air brake chamber to replace a leaking diaphragm , the employee was distracted by taking a lunch break . when he returned , he removed a clamp prematurely releasing a spring which hit him on his left forearm . the employee neglected to release the spring pressure before removing the clamp .
pulling stone pins from preheater stone chutes and left elbow pain flared up from previous repetitive motion illness . employee saw occupational medicine on 5/5/14 received initial medical review . 5/20/14 due to recurring pain employee returned to occupational medicine and received a prescription for an anti-inflammatory , making this an mine safety and health administration reportable incident .
employee was setting timbers when he experienced pain in lower back .
loading material into company truck slipped stepping down from rear bumper turned right foot and ankle
employee and another employee was carrying a sand prop when employee lost his footing and fell , in the event to catch himself he run his left hand across the flat sharp edge of the prop he was carrying . employee suffered a laceration to his left hand in the thumb area requiring 5 stitches .
a roof fall was found off the tailgate entry of the ( 22nd west ) of the 23rd west longwall . the roof fall was approximately 16 feet from the tailgate and was approximately thirty feet in length , twenty feet in width and approximately five feet in height . the roof fall block access off the tailgate .
employee was using come a longs to unload shuttle car tire off mantrip . he was pulling on the come a longs when they got wedged , he was standing in mud . when he pulled , the come a longs broke loose causing him to twist his knee .
a roof fall occurred 2 breaks inby spad 842. the fall measured 10 ' x 18 ' x 40 ' .
utility employee was leaning against a guardrail with his arms stretched along th top rail and his hand hanging over the end . a forklift was exiting the area in reverse and struck the end of the guardrail while making a left turn . the employee's right hand was pinned between the forklift body and guardrail , crushing the index and middle fingers . partial amp of middle finger .
employee had both hands on a 4 lb hammer striking a piece of flatbar in a vice . hammer glanced off of vice and hit finger between hammer handle and flat bar .
employee was standing behind hopper on crusher on log left side . loader operator was building berm on right side of log . a large rock fell out of loader bucket on opposite end of log causing it   to pop up and employee popped up and fell down a 20 ' embankment on his feet .
victim was pulling on cable , and fell . did not report it until 12-17-10 , when his back began to hurt . went to doctor on 12-20-10 , l-5 vertebra out of line . has appointment . with physical therapy on 01-03-2011 .
employee stated that he was moving a 55 gal drum of oil , the drum slipped from metal surface , smashing his hand between the drum and a metal pole .
alleged incident was to have occurred while this employee was turning the cowl on the shearer . he claims a piece of rock came down and hit on top of the shield bouncing it . cause of this injury was shield was not completely set against the roof . compliance with rules/regulations not a factor , protective equip . not a factor , miner proficiency a factor , mining systems a factor .
while traveling to work in company truck along right   153 near penfield the vehicle hydroplaned on substance ( mud/water/oil ) on road resulting in the truck flipping over .
employee was splitting a stone . when the stone split 1/2 fell on his foot causing it to break .
employee was supervising rehabilitation work in the main east returns . he was observing the roof bolter operator install a roof bolt when a loose rock rolled off the rib area , striking injured employee on the left leg and ankle . employee was treated in the hospital for a possible blood clot . he started missing time on 02/06/04 and is still under the doctor's care at this time . employee should always check area .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the 4 south section number 9 entry at 28 + 94. the fall meas . approx . 60 ' long x 16 ' wide x 8'-10 ' high . no injuries or equipment damaged .
employee was installing shuttle car cable anchor when a piece of cap flew off and struck him in the face , leaving a laceration to his upper lip .
member bent over helping electrician work on miner when a piece of drawrock struck him in the back shoving him into the frame of the machine . the rock measured approximately   3 ' x 3 ' and less than 2 '' thick . member did not cease work . on may 29 , 2009 it was learned that he had seen a doctor and diagnosed with a hairline fractures to four ribs . he said he felt fine and refused to be off work .
employee was tightening a bolt when the wrench slipped causing employee's hand to thrust forward . the employee's left hand struck the differential causing a laceration .
while at the reclamation office trailer located in tyrone , new mexico mine the employee attempted to lift a heavy 44 gallon barrel trash bag into the cargo bed ( tailgate ) of a f-150 pick-up truck by herself . employee heard a pop in her right shoulder and was unable to lift her right arm . employee sustained shoulder injury .
stepped off stepladder to ground and went to turn and in doing so , twisted right knee . note : first reported as as `` first aid '' only incident . a visit to doctor on the 22nd required fluid to be drained   . returned to work next scheduled shift .
employee was moving boxes with paper and supplies several weeks ago . injury was to lower back and was not known to be a work place injury until 6/4/04. first incident was in march , no medical treatment required . reoccurrence on 5/24/04 medical attention was sought . supervision was not notified of the recurrence and determination made that it was work related until 6/4/04 .
employee was operating machinery walking along side via remote when employee noticed something in employee's eye . eye protection was being worn at the time . employee reported to security for evaluation and was taken to medical clinic for further evaluation . employee had an abrasion on the eye and was treated with medication .
walking up longwall face to tailgate to do on-shift examination . when stepping past shield 131 employee tripped and fell . laceration to right hand palm occurred
injured worker was working on 107 pan conveyor and complained of soreness due to bending and twisting on steps while removing guards . reported the next day that he was suspicious of a possible   hernia . appointment was made to see the doctor . was referred to another doctor .
alleged occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee was splitting a piece of stone and hit his hand with a hammer
while removing the kiln burner pipe using a come-along , the anchor point to which the come-along was connected failed and broke away causing employee to fall to the floor hitting his head and cutting his ear .
employee felt eye irritation while he was at home , report for his shift on 10-22-02 , seen doctor on last day of shift ( 10-23-02 ) . employee had foreign object in his left eye removed . his next shift will start   10-28-02. note : works 4 days on 4 days off .
employee was unloading a dispersant rail car . the omya employee was wearing gloves , when he grabbed the hose to hook to the coupler to the rail car , a wire from the hose came out ( this happened due to the way the hose was cut during replacement from the maintenance department ) and punctured a small hole in his hand ( right hand thumb side ) .
employee was treated for a bilateral hernia from severe coughing while at work state find notified the 50 parts and human resources department   on 8-7-05 .
a roof fall occurred in the 3rd west , number 8 entry , 3990 ' station . the fall was approximately   25 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel or cause injury . fall did cover the fuel car .
employee and another miner were moving a large oxygen bottle into the pit shop when employee stepped on a rock and then felt a pain in his lower back .
employee was in the process of installing a bearing on a new water wipe for the longwall head . another employee was prying up on one side of the shaft with a pry bar so they could install a bearing . the shaft slipped off the pry bar smashing the tip of left middle finger between the 5 '' steel shaft and steel i beam .
employee was pulling troughing roller off of a pallet on a trailer . as he pulled off a roller , a second roller fell striking employee on left thumb . employee did not want medical attention at time of accident . employee reported discomfort 12-19-00. taken to cayuga medical center , examined and released - no excessive gripping or repetitive movement until 12-25-00 .
had been loading belt structure in scoop walked around end of scoop and hit head on brow hanging down . ave roof height 5 1/2 ft brow about 5 ft hit sideways spraining neck .
the employee was loading a drive shaft for a roof bolter in the bill of a scoop bucket . the drive shaft was just changed and had oil and grease on it . the drive shaft was in a location where it needed to be lifted in the bucket . when the employee lifted one end , it slipped out of his hands and landed on his left foot . x-ray negative , bruise .
the employee reported to his supervisor that during his activities of operating the slate truck that he had an incident which caused back pain . x-rays taken were negative . the employee has a history   of degenerative disc disease .
employee inhaled fire extinguisher chemical .
employee was prying on a cat pad . the pry bar slipped and struck his lower lip causing a cut which required stitches .
a mine rescue team found a roof fall while patrolling section 4 , while under k order the fall was in the number   4 entry at spad 13314. the fall was 6 ' to 8 ' in height . it began in by spad 13301 and into the cross toward spad 13313 .
employee was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome on 6-26-2002 and informed management on 8-7-02 that it was work related . began missing work on 10-2-02 .
employee was applying paint at the face for drilling a rock fell from the back and struck hardhat then his forearm . sutures were required to close laceration on forearm
employee was operating dump truck on unlevel terrain , while dumping load , truck began to rock and the truck tipped over . employee failed to position vehicle on level ground . employee injured leg and ribs .
employee was operating a roller during construction of a mine haul road . he drove up an incline to turn around and as he was backing up lost control of the roller , drove over the edge of the road under construction and down approximately 150 of steep hillside , coming to rest upright at the bottom of the slope .
a roof fall occurred in the number 4 portal ( fan ) intake air course entry approximately 18 feet wide , 10 feet high and 60 to 70 feet in length . the cause of the fall was due to the extremely harsh winter weather of late where the roof froze and thawed several . this fall was immediately report to mine safety and health administration via the 800 number .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee on 3/18/2014 .
employee was dismounting water truck . slipped fell and twisted right ankle .
employee had unloaded some brake calipers out of the bucket of the 910 loader . his back started hurting later .
excavator was shutting down at end of shift . excavator was top loading trucks , the operator cut a ramp to walk excavator off the level it had been operating from . while walking down ramp , excavator started bogging in dirt and suddenly stopped , caused cab to tilt over . employee released seat belt , hit forehead on windshield , deep cut . 2 witnesses called foreman ( called 911 ) .
unintentional roof fall in number 1 entry from spad 1998 to 1696. measurement : 35 ' ( long ) x 20 ' ( wide ) x 6 ' ( thick ) .
preparing to move rebar up for next row of bolts . rock fell from between rib and outside bolt , striking right side and falling down onto right ankle , causing injury . taken to emergency room for treatment . x-ray of right ankle positive .
tightening a nut when wrench slipped off of nut . employee lost his footing causing his back to spasm do to a pre-existing condition .
roof fall was found on a normal weekly exam of the box cut intake airways . block 12 @ spad number 3677 `` old number 1 section track entry '' . fall is in an intersection 18 ' wide , 25 ' long , 4 1/2 ' thick . bolted with 4 ' resin bolts - bolts pulled out approximately   6 '' sandstone main roof - slate top fell .
rock dusting , main east , returned , felt pain in lower part of right leg . diagnosed on 9/22/06 . mri report received 9/23/06 .
employee was hanging line curtain using 8 ' step ladder . ladder was placed on gob and when injured started to climb , ladder started to tilt . injured jumped off ladder backwards and hyperextended his knee   . finished shift and went to emergency room . later thursday .
he was working on the radiator of the loader . his wrench slipped while taking radiator cap off causing him to lose his balance and he fell approximately   4 ft when he hit the ground he injured his pelvis .
employee was helping set a jack to hold the tailpiece . the bar slipped bruising his left side . went to doctor on 4-23-01. returned to work on 4-25-01. follow up visit on 4-24-01 .
employee was performing janitorial services and pulled a muscle on the stairway .
a piece of trona approximately 400 lb fell from the right rib ( top of the arch ) striking the employee on the right shoulder . he suffered a shoulder separation and was placed on restricted duty .
employee was using a wrench to tighten a bolt that attached a sign to a post . the wrench `` slipped '' , his hand slid down the sharp metal edge of the sign resulting in an incision wound . sutures were required   to close the wound . employee returned to work his next scheduled shift without restrictions .
employee has a hearing loss according to si work compensation . employee laid off due to mine closure occupational illness .
employee was cutting when top started working . employee turned and fell in a hole , twisting left knee . knee is now swollen and painful . torn medial meniscus .
employee was removing rock from crusher conveyor , caught his finger between conveyor and rail.
employee was working on zink feed pump line installing 3/4 '' bolts using 1 1/8 wrench and socket with breaker bar . while tightening bolts , his wrist popped and fingers on right hand became numb . he was seen by a doctor on 10/7/04 where he was given an injection and an elastic wrist band . he had surgery on 11/29/04 for the right wrist and started missing time .
the wana elevator went down at 10:00 am with no persons on board . the elevator was back in service at 10:47 am . elevator problem with main breaker was the problem .
employee was using a sledge hammer to knock pins in 994 bucket and felt a pain in his neck and left arm started getting numb .
employee was removing a   j   bolt on a screen when the wrench turned and his right middle finger contacted a screen adjacent to the   j   bolt . he should have positioned the wrench so the action would have directed his hand away from the screen . result was a 1/2 '' cut to the right middle finger , requiring 3 stitches .
injured had removed a 3 ' section of dcr screw conveyor cover in an attempt unjam it . to clear material , employee ran the screw in reverse . the employee then walked to the screw to observe progress when right glove was snagged by the end of the screw flight and pulled in causing injury .
employee was on top of loader bucket doing his midday greasing of bucket cylinders . a shot was set off ; he turned to see where rocks were going . he lost his balance and fell to the ground , bruising his left knee . he returned to work the same day ( after seeing physician ) and worked the next day , leaving early due to pain . he reported to the emergency room over the weekend for lower back pain .
employee states opening wheel valve and thumb got caught between valve and stem at two tank area .
award from west virginia workers compensation division for 4.015 % noise-induced hearing loss .
employee stated while using a mechanical scaler for 15 years , his wrists became painful . he was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome . this has been also diagnosed as an occupational illness .
employee was using an airlance to remove buildup from a conveyor tailpulley . he inserted the air lance through the pulley guard . it was caught in pulley pulling hand against the guard .
cut 4th finger on right hand while removing rock from tailgate of 10 wheeler dump . received stitches at benson hospital . was released to return to work
employee reported he was removing an old bearing . employee's partner struck the bearing race with a hammer and a piece of steel flew off and hit employee in the left upper shoulder area . a small piece of steel ( approximately   3/8 '' x 1/8 '' ) was removed by doctor . employee was placed on restricted duties at the time of the removal of the steel .
employee was cleaning the hopper to eliminate a buildup of material . there was a steel diversion angle with a sharp edge . employee cut his right forearm .
a roof fall was found 2400 ' outby the mains section near spad number 7719 in the return . the fall was approximately   60 '' thick and 20 ' wide by 30 ' long .
the employee was reaching up to apply a hand brake to a rail car and felt a sharp pain in his shoulder as he tightened the hand brake . note : this injury was not reported to site management until 08/05/2013 .
employee was getting ready to paint the face when a small air blast occurred and blew out part of the face . fly rock went about 10 ft employee was standing 5-6 ft from face and was hit in right arm with fly rock   which cut his arm requiring stitches
employee tripped/misstepped while walking in quarry he put his hand out to catch himself and broke his wrist .
at approximately 1:38pm lightning struck the volvo 110 loader , number 1443 , on the lift arm or forks . it is believed that the lightning jumped from the forks and struck the ground employee on his right side and exited near his right ankle . the ground employee sustained burn injuries to his upper arm , right side of torso , right leg and foot .
material broke loose , fell from highwall striking employee on his back and injuring his ribs and shoulder . this was a small amount of material consisting of loose dirt and rocks . victim was about 16 ' away from walk when struck . material clump fell around 45 ' above .
part of unit was on 4 man dapco and 14 man unit ride , one man got off unit ride in pit to get a golf cart . 14 man unit ride was in front , golf cart was next and 4 man dapco was last . on number 4 belt supply road , 14 man went through clear curtain and slowed up for some rock that had fallen out between pins . the golf car went through clear curtain and slowed up or stopped . the 4 man went through clear
while installing excavator bucket , pin slipped and the employee twisted his back .
employee was walking through door at c2 and struck his head on the top of the door jamming his neck . employee finished his shift and did not seek medical attention . continued working until 9-23-14 when he was taken off work following an mri - diagnosed bulging disc with nerve damage .
employee was descending ladder from 491 elevator platfrom to 492 conveyer screw . employee lost grip and fell approximately 3 ft to walkway , resulting in contusion to lower back area and abrasions to left hand . incident occurred 4-25-00 .
knelt down on bolt head on screen deck right knee cap popped out and bruised .
3 west section the height was high and he climbed into shuttle car bed for height so he could reach the roof to hang his shuttle car anchor . he slipped on metal deck and fell , hit right knee on metal deck   .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 3 entry at 38 cross cut on the mobile mining unit 0020. the fall was 0 to 8 ft thick in the intersection .
employee was installing a hoist cylinder on a 2006 volvo dump truck . the hoist cylinder moved and pinched middle finger on right hand . employee's finger had a laceration requiring four sutures .
mechanic was draining hot oil out of differential housing when the drain cover blew off after the cover bolts were loosen again to complete drain .
employee was washing off a tail pulley when a rock fell off the belt , striking the index finger on his left hand . he was given a shot to numb the finger when the doctor pushed the nail back into place . no broken bones or stitches
employee suffered an epileptic seizure that caused him to fall . employee received a laceration to forehead and sustained a fracture to right thumb .
employee was taking water line apart , used a knife to cut duct tape , slipped and cut left .
an unintentional roof fall has occurred on the number 1 section 2nd left plan on chase submains spad 9420. the fall was approximately 60 ft x 19 ft x 4 1/2 ft . there were no injuries reported and no equipment was involved .
injured stated that he felt pain in both knees as he was getting out of unihauler .
employee was operating coal truck on a hill when the truck started backwards . employee lost control and flipped truck onto side .
hoistman reported that limit switch caused hoist to go down . electricians were called to inspect hoist . they found the hoist was out of time due to declutching . hoist was put back in time and returned to service . mine safety and health administration was called at 7:30 am reporting hoist out of service . mine safety and health administration was called at 12:30 pm that hoist had been returned to service at 11:00 am .
employee was tamping the face when a piece of cap coal came down on his left hand .
3 employee let off the tail pulley to make a lace . after making the lace they were trying to tighten the belt with the winch and noticed the brake was set on the winch . 1 employee was holding the handle of the winch with both hands while another employee released the brake and the handle slipped out of employee hand and hit him in left eye .
number 1 entry a void was found . bottom fell into lower winfrede seam 18 ' wide 20 ' long 12 '' deep and app 15 ' long and 5 ' wide and 12 '' high back into solid rib .
the alimak elevator was being tested when a switch in the controller on the bottom landing short circuited causing the elevator to stop during travel . the switch was cleaned and the elevator was placed back into service at 4:30 am
a roof fall occurred on 8 haulage extension at the number 41 break . the fall is 12 feet wide by 24 feet long by 5.5 thick in the middle tapering down on the edges . the fall was originally bolted with 5 foot install be bolts and was mined in january of 2001. no equipment was involved and no one was injured .
employee stepped down 2 feet to lower level at reclaimer and felt a sharp pain in back . employee was taken to clinic and received medications for pain .
torquing rod bearing cap on 155 komatsu dozer with torque wrench set at 300 ft/lbs . adapter broke and sudden shift of body weight caused cut to middle finger of right hand . writing on failed tool warned torque not to exceed 4500 lb/in . using below formula we were performing work within tolerance of tool .
injured was cutting a piece of steel with a torch and a piece of hot slag fell into his boot .
employee squatted down to lift 3 cardox tubes . he placed them on his shoulder . when employee stood up he felt a pain in groin area .
employee went to close door on maintenance truck and accidentally closed the door on his finger . it caused a minor cut , and finger was throbbing . 4 days later it began swelling and he reported the   injury on the 8th .
employee was moving structural steel by hand when two pieces came together and mashed his finger . 4 stitches .
employee was tightening a piece of pipe in the lathe . as he tightened the chuck , he hit the forward lever on the lathe with his left knee , engaging the lathe , and his clothing was caught in the chuck wrench . his left arm was pulled partially around the lathe , causing abrasion and bruising of his left hand , wrist , arm and chest .
the employee tripped while exiting the mantrip fell forward and hit his forehead on the door .
for the past 3 weeks employee has been assigned groundsperson job shoveling dirt from below the plant and conveyors . prior mine work was as a loader operator/groundsperson . no specific event re ported by employee .
employee was running the roof bolter on 1 west section in number 1 hog lost open break . while installing roof bolt he was lowering drill pot and had his leg under drill pot and let drill pot down on his left knee twisted leg a little .
employee . driving to shop to get parts . getting out of truck , got dizzy , couldn't breathe , fell out of truck , couldn't get to his inhaler . was found on ground , ambulance was called , taken to hospital . having asthma attack , because he couldn't get to inhaler , had a panic attack . no injury from fall . asthma attack not work related . document to follow .
employee was working on jaw crusher conveyor belt kneeling by the tail pulley on right knee . the next morning very sore and badly swollen
employee and coworkers were moving a portable platform when one of the wheels rolled off the uneven surface of the floor causing the platform to shift to the side , trapping employee's hand between the platform   and handrail .
employee was climbing a ladder and heard his right knee pop . his knee began to swell . he was seen by the physician but was able to continue his full work duty . on 8/30/2012 ( his regularly scheduled day off ) he had surgery on his knee and this injury became reportable . his next regularly scheduled shift began on 9/5/2012 , at which time this accident became a lost time injury .
employee was installing a roof bolt and a small piece of draw rock fell and made a small cut on hand .
employee was scooping around the feeder area , when the bucket of his scoop caught the bat wing and as he continued to back up , the bucket dropped down , causing employee to jam his head into the canopy . reportable lost time injury as of 9/30/10 due to surgery .
employee was reporting to his loader . he stepped on a pallet and there was a small rock that was on the pallet and his foot slid on the rock .
injured employee was helping change out a roller on the number 1 kiln . the wind was blowing hard yesterday . employee felt something in right eye , like it was scratched . that afternoon eye became sore , employee seen a speck of something on eye . employee tried to remove it but was unable to . employee reported this to supervisor the following morning .
on 8/7/15 an employee was in the process of connecting an airline for a pump and stepped into liquid lime . he notified the fill-in supervisor and senior supervisor but refused medical attention . both supervisors advised the employee to rinse off his foot and apply neosporin . on 8/12/15 and was treated for an infection resulting from chemical burns to the right foot .
employee was diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome . began missing work on 3/7/00 .
the mechanic was removing a collet from the bucket on 510904 left-hand drive . as the mechanic was tightening the jack bolts to remove the collet , it broke loose and spun in the bore . one of the jack bolts swung around and struck the mechanic on his right index finger. his supervisor and the maintenance coordinator were contacted and responded to the mine site at 0300 , transported to hospital , 4
an unintentional roof fall was found on 1/1/2018 at approximately 12:40am . the fall was in the number 2 entry inby spad number 1473 and outby spad # 1463. the approximate dimensions of the fall are 20 ' in length x 20 ' in width x 8 ' in thickness .
became mine safety and health administration reportable on october 15 2003. employee was using a pry bar to move a track rail when he felt pain in his right   knee . continued working until october 15 , 2003 .
employee complained of slight pain or discomfort in left wrist , did not know of any work contributing factors at that time . employee was treated at prescott valley primary and urgent care with no confirmed diagnosis .
employee received burn injuries to his arms when he removed a radiator cap on a 777 haul truck without properly relieving the pressure resulting in burn injuries and restricted duties .
employee was helping to clean the shop and picked up one end of an old cutting edge from a loader . he strained his right elbow as he was dragging it across the floor .
employee was loading cable bolts in the ramcar , when one got hung , causing him to lose his footing and slip .
loading anfo into truck one of the other employees stumbled while handing employee a 50 lb bag of anfo dropping it down to employee . employee caught it with his left arm aggravating his left shoulder .
employee was sitting eating lunch and was struck by draw rock .
employee picked up a metal portable panalytical table top x-ray machine to move it , when a piece of metal on the underside of the machine sliced his finger , resulting in 4 sutures .
employee was walking and roofed out his head jamming his neck .
employee was inflating a truck , while in the protective tire cage . when somehow the lock ring blew off and came out of the cage and struck him in the face and head .
employee developed chafed skin on both calves due to the friction of pants legs repetitively rubbing against them after becoming wet . it did not involve any equipment or compliance issues . it also did not involve job skills , proficiency , training , personal protective equipment or protective devices .
employee was installing liner plates in the secondary crusher when his right hand was struck with a sledge hammer ( not the hammer itself ) thus bruising right hand pinky finger .
employee stated that while welding a crack on a dump body , he received flash burns to both eyes. he is not sure the exact time of day this happened .
when pounding pin with sledge hammer , employee felt pop , burning and pain in elbow . pain increased over weekend , employee thought this was related to 04/12/12 industrial injury , so he saw doctor mri identified triceps tendon rupture , determined a new injury on 09/26/2012 . lost time , surgical repair required .
while working to install a piece of rail , employee struck a rail clip with a hammer , which glanced off and hit his left index finger .
employee was using a prybar to dislodge chute in crusher feeder .
employee stepped over the feeder wing onto a water hose and felt a pop in her back .
miner was standing on the third rung of a step ladder performing maintenance on a screening plant when miner lost his balance and fell backwards onto his left side in the dirt and mud . miner suffered a concussion , separated left shoulder , strained neck , strained back and ligament damage to his right knee .
roof fall , measuring approximately   18' wide x 40' long x 3-4' high , in number 4 entry of southwest main . this was area of known adverse roof and cribs and jacks had already been used to isolate area . did not interfere   with ventilation or travel and no equipment affected .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the 1st left off old number 11 belt 3 blocks inby spad number 710 in the old face area . this area was developed on 12-15-06 with approximately 160 ' of cover and the roof is supported with 6' fully grouted resin bolts .
employee has been employed with pg &amp; e operating services company for five years as a equipment operator and has been an equipment operator for 18 years . employee underwent carpal tunnel surgery   to his right hand on 1-09-01. an investigation has been started . this has not been determined work related at this time .
employee was using a rivet buster to break up material behind the maintenance shop for aproximately 4 hours . next day the employee complained of burning sensation in his shoulders . the employee went to the medical clinic where he was diagnosed with a right shoulder strain . the employee returned to work with work restrictions of no overhead lifting and physical therapy 3 times a week for 2 weeks .
rock fell from top , hit employee on head and back of neck .
the victims ( previous owners ) were on my property attempting to start a retired loader . the engine fired causing the loader to lunge in reverse running over the two victims .
employee states from long term exposure to the loud noise in this work environment his hearing ability has been lessened .
employee was driving mantrip when he lost control of mantrip and ran into the north rib . his left knee came in contact with the dashboard , causing a laceration .
while operating scraper , right shoulder started to hurt . on june 12 , 2001 doctor diagnosed bursitis and tendonitis in his right shoulder and a mild case in his left shoulder .
ie was backing in a unit fuel tank in a cross-cut with a tractor when employee pinched right pinky in a pinch point where the tractor sections come together . employee backed over a berm causing the rear section to lift up butting against the front section causing a laceration .
employee was fixing a broken conveyor belt clip , he was prying the old one off , when the screwdriver he was using slipped off and punctured his top lip . employee received 8 stitches in his lip .
employee was on the packaging b-line , moving the sewing head while the machine was still running . this resulted in his right pinky being fulled in the belt drive . the fingertip was cut off . he was ta ken to the hospital where he received stitches . the employee was released to return to work .
employee was removing a drill bit on number 75 drill unit when the chain wrench he was using broke . the chain wrench broke swinging out and striking the employee's left knee and left hand . employee received laceration   to the left knee and contusion to the left hand .
employee occasionally helps with bulldozing and claims that the bouncing and jarring from the dozer caused several discs to rupture in his back .
rock fall was discovered int he 3 west return , between number 5 and number 6 entry at the number 40 cross-cut . fall was approx . 6 ' to 7 ' thick , 50 ' long and 18 ft wide . fall was discovered on the weekly exam . no plans are made to clean up the fall . the area originally was bolted with 4 ' torque tension bolts .
alleged , employee states he was hosing , turned to his left , felt pain . was seen by on-site emergency medical technician and returned to work . employee took self off work the following shift , went to personal chiropractor that he has been seeing for non occupational matters .
employee had soreness in right elbow and reported it to his supervisor . the employee was taken to clinic and diagnosed with tennis elbow . elastic band and cold compresses used to control inflammation . employee returned to clinic for follow up on 10/21 , referred to a physical therapist for ultra sound therapy . employee was given his 1st ultra sound treatment on 10/27 .
employee was drilling a hole with a hand drill to anchor a kennedy stopping in coal rib . the auger barrel broke and hit employee on right   hand .
employee was using a pry bar to pry class b material ( erosion control stone ) loose in a clogged chute . as the employee pulled on the pry bar , it slipped loose striking the employee in the left eyebrow area .
employee was putting up tin sheets when a sheet fell , striking him on the left side of his face . medical treatment injury .
while being tied off onto rail fall protection system , as he stepped across between 2 rail cars the supplemental restraint locked and pulled him off balance . he fell slightly backwards between the cars , approximately 3 feet . he alone stepped back onto the rail car and reported incident .
employee was helping plant operator remove belt guard on secondary shaker . while lifting guard out of place , employee's foot slipped on wet surface causing his ankle to roll , spraining his ankle .
employee was working on a foot shaft while the miner was down . he was under the head about 3:00 am when his lower back began to tighten up . he continued to work until it was unbearable around 5 am   he left the job without filling out an accident report . after talking to his crew there was no incident leading to this situation .
employee was putting breaker in on pinner - burnt left hand when breaker flashed .
member was operating mantrip , the mantrip jerked . member hit top of canopy of mantrip hurting his neck .
employee was pulling shovel cable from cable reeler , when cable snapped at splice and hit employee knocking employee to ground . employee dislocated right knee and had surgery on 04/21/2017 . employee began losing time on 4/21/17 .
he stepped off of the fender of the volvo , lost his balance and fell .
while roof bolting a piece of rock approximately 3 ' diameter 6 '' thick fell out of roof striking employee on left knee . employee continued working until 4/4/01 when this accident now became a lost time accident   .
walking along belt line , his utility knife hanging on side of his belt with blade open , caught him in the palm causing a laceration requiring 3 stitches . he returned his next shift to work .
employee was struck on the left ribs by a piece of drawrock while installing roof bolts .
employee was operating a forklift and bagging cement product , the next morning , he couldn't lift his left arm . the doctor gave him the next 9 workdays off . investigation concluded it was caused by repetitive   motions .
employee was in the process of pre-operational testing an angle grinder . after several attempts working the start switch , employee did not anticipate the initial kick of the tool as it came on . the tool was in the left hand and kicked to the right . the cut off blade on the tool struck the index finger of the right hand . causing a laceration requiring sutures .
employee claims he injured his back due to rough haul roads .
removing a hydraulic pump on ht450 . he reached up to start removing a hose clamp and got some dirt in his face , he brushed the dirt away , continued to work . employee was at lunch , his eyes started to get irritated . i took him down to first aid . it was determined that there was a foreign body in right eye , it was removed by eye doctor .
employee was removing a blockage in the number 2 chute , hand slipped causing the right ring finger to get lacerated , requiring seven stitches ( sutures only ) .
employee was entering the well house at the crusher , and startled a stray dog that was in the well house . the dog bit employee on the right thigh .
employee was stepping down from lower rail of hand rail and felt sharp pain in left knee causing him to fall to grating . sharp pain proceeded along with swelling . this wasn't filed until today because we didn't receive medical information to determine whether this would be recordable until 11/24/08 .
pulling plys off of belt . belt tongs slipped and come-along came back and hit left cheek . slippery weather .
employee was working on the miner tracks and a metal bar fell onto his left arm .
employee was helping put a high-line cable through a permanent stopping . a pick hammer was being used to knock a hole in the stopping when a piece of the hammer slivered off and embedded into employee's right eye .
getting out of dump truck to check the oil on his truck , slipped on step of truck fell back toward fuel tank cap then fell to the ground
employee was placing wooden pallet onto loading station at bulk bag station and felt a pain in right side .
a roof fall occurred in a 4 way intersection number 2 and 2 x 3 at 4 x on south i section . 17 ' wide x 60 ' long x 9 ' high . 2 cross-cuts outby the loading point . 6 ' fully grouted bolts with 4 - 12 ' cable bolts in the intersection . no persons or equipment damaged or trapped . no ventilation or escapeways were affected .
employee was getting off dozer to use restroom . he slipped and fell onto the push arm striking his left knee .
injured was walking from office to motor barn slipped on ice and hurt his right shoulder . he did not miss any work until 5/8/14 when he went off for surgery .
a roof fall occurred in the 002 1 east section at 1:50 pm saturday july 9th at the intersection 3 and 50 in number 9 entry . the fall was initially 4 ' high and 40 ' long . it did extend to 60 ' long before   the investigation and timbering were completed . it also went higher and water is coming off the fall . the area was bolted with 48 and 42 ' bolts and straps initially .
on 07/25/03 , employee was changing a grinding wheel on an angle grinder that remained plugged into a power source when a coworker attempting to assist him in changing the grinding wheel inadvertently   depressed the trigger and started the grinder causing the grinding wheel to come in contact with the employee's finger which resulted in a laceration requiring four ( 4 ) sutures to repair . he was taken
this individual was operating a 488 s &amp; s scoop . he had pulled the rubber-tired supply car into a cross-cut . the chain was hooked to the bucket of the scoop and frame of the car . he raised up the bucket to get slack in the chain to unhook it . this caused the car to drop and smash his right thumb between supply car and bucket .
employee stated that he was scaling the highwall with a dozer when a large rock broke loose . the rock fell and hit the corner of the dozer blade as he was backing up and out of the way . the caused the   dozer to shake/jar the employee resulting in a mild cervical strain . reportable due to lost work shift on 3-9-01 .
injured worker was waterblasting in the pre-heat tower and strained his right shoulder .
employee noticed that there was something irritating his eye after his shift when he got home . the next morning the problem had not resolved so we took him to the ophthalmologist and it was determined that he had a small particle embedded in his eye which had to be scraped out . he does not know when or how this happened .
worker was walking under a conveyor as it was beginning to move . a cobble rolled off the belt and struck worker on the head . he was wearing a hard hat . cobble fell about 4 ' .
while doing his normal job position , employee started having symptoms of lower back pain . after extensive testing the results show he is suffering from the occupational illness of degenerative discs . per 2/5 document 220102230004 , employee was doing walk around his truck , when he slipped and fell on flat ground .
while traveling in number 181 man bus on the east main travelway the bus wrecked at bottom of the hill at cross cut 12. employee had laceration on head and contusion of left hip .
strained right wrist raising bed on gator in shop . employee put on light duty 7-13-04 .
the employee was taking a nut off the head of the crusher when the nut fell hitting employee in the right forearm below the elbow causing a cut requiring 8 stitches .
employee was cutting on a piece of control cable with a utility knife when it slipped off of the cable causing him to cut his wrist . he ceased work and received sutures as medical treatment .
employee was using a sledge hammer when he caught his finger between the handle an a cone liner .
received a hearing loss diagnosis for employee on 5/21/2018 . employee last worked on 4/13/2017 and was termed on 10/13/2017 .
on 10/10/2007 the employee was climbing up on dozer at the prep plant . he slipped and strained his right shoulder in the process . he has continued to work until 10/29/07 when he began missing for pain in right   shoulder and neck area
employee strained back lifting a seal roller from filter cloth
employee was using his foot to hold down a crib tie that was stuck under a swing arm that was being delivered to the mine . another person struck the crib tie with a sledge to dislodge it . when the tie released , the employee lost his balance and fell down . he struck his left elbow as he landed . the distance of the fall was about 3 feet .
employee was removing trash from an office waste basket that seemed to be struck . she yanked the plastic bag , freeing it . then the bag and the contents quickly came up . unable to control this action her left wrist struck the corner of the metal desk chipping the wrist bone .
injured was bending a 6 ' roof bolt . the bolt slipped and employee twisted arm and felt pain in right shoulder .
fall occurred on number 2 unit , mobile mining unit 002*0 number 2 entry , cross-cut 15. the entry contained a localized horseback . the fall measures approximately 20 feet long , 17 feet wide , and 2.5 to 4 feet thick . the area is supported with 5 ' torque tension rebar bolts   .
the man injured his lower back on 4-3-00 , removing the tail from a joy miner . the man was installing roofbolts on 5-1-2000 when he had muscle spasms of his lower back .
employee was crossing ground floor when he lost his balance and came down on his hands and knees causing small laceration to right middle finger .
employee was cleaning build-up of frozen material from underside of conveyor belt , when it let loose and fell against his leg .
laceration from chain saw on arm .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis for employee from workers compensation .
setting slurry pump on base frame with backhoe and chain . bolt hole was not lined up and employee tried to push in place . pump went past edge and tilted . employee's hand was on edge and was caught between pump and backhoe edge . he had on gloves but did not prevent a cut and fracture .
employee , the scoop man was helping clean up cribbing from a maintenance job . as he was stacking the blocks another worker threw a crib block from 12 feet into the scoop bucket striking employee's right middle two fingers . this caused a fracture to both of the finger tips . employee returned to work on 09-05-2013 on his regular shift with no lost time .
employee was cutting the angle iron and it dropped to the ground . after it fell a piece nicked his shin . he never reported it , because it wasn't a big cut . 2 weeks later a liver of metal got infected in his leg .
employee was putting an axle shaft back in a scraper . the fit was tight and when it finally went in it pinched his hand behind the shaft . having his hand in the wrong place and not wearing gloves contributed   to his injuries . the cut in his hand required 10 stitches .
employee was driving an articulated dump truck with approximately 18 tons of material . as he took the corner at the maintenance shop to go up the hill the load shifted to the right and the dump   body turned over on the right side . the cab went onto 2 wheels then came down . employee received stitches to forehead .
employee was assisting a roof bolting machine move from one heading to another by removing the cable ties that held the cable to the mine roof , allowing the operator to take up cable slack while tramming cable reel first . the cable struck the employee in the feet knocking him to the mine floor . he fell on his back and on top of his self-rescuer causing a simple fracture to the lumbar area .
west 2 , number 16 block , number 6 entry , 4-way , mobile mining unit 001 . 25 ft long x 20 ft wide x 10 ft high . support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , roof mats , cable bolts , wire screen . fall will be cleaned up . clean up plan posted .
employee was walking down steps near 33 belt when he stepped on a lump of coal twisting his right ankle .
employee was operating a volvo a35d articulated truck when the truck slid in a tire rut . the operator had right hand on the wheel and left hand on the grab rail . the sudden movement jerked employee's body to the right causing pain in left shoulder .
unintentional fall that occurred between the 2 bleeder shafts . the fall measured 13' wide x 30'long x 8'high .
the employee was involved in a battery hauler to battery hauler collision , a miscommunication put two haulers in the same place at the same time . the collision caused the injured employee to sustain neck muscles similar to whiplash .
employee was suing a torque multiplier to tighten a bolt to the blade for the metal shear . the multiplier slipped causing employee's two middle fingers to be caught between the tool handle and work deck .
a roof fall was discovered at spad 69+74 ( number   1 entry - number   3 entry ) in the 2nd north panel off the submain east ( all equipment reclaimed prior to discovery of this fall ; area to be sealed ) . the fall was 90 ' long x 18 ' wide x 6 ' high . there were no injuries , disruption to ventilation or passage of personnel .
employee boarded rubber tire dozer without incident at start of shift . during shift experienced pain in area of right shoulder blades . saw physician on 2-5 was diagnosed with right   shoulder tendonitis was taken off work on 2-20-03. received chart notes on 3-21-03. lost time restricted work occupational illness
kenworth blast truck was being used to load holes on a shot on the g haul road when driver lost control and rolled down a steep ramp tipping truck up onto its side at the bottom of the ramp . the driver was pinned under the steering column for approximately 2 hours . employee was transferred by helicopter to eastern idaho medical center .
employee was stepping onto a piece of granite grout near a creek when the piece of grout rolled over causing him to fall thus hitting his left arm/elbow area on another piece of granite grout causing a compound fracture to his left arm/elbow . he had two plates and 14 screws implanted in his arm during surgery .
employee turned ankle in yard which caused him to fall . when catching himself with hand he dislocated / fractured two if his fingers . employee was given prescription , light duty , and rehabilitation .
employee was injured on 7/27/06 . he returned to work on 8/9/06 on regular duty . he stated that his shoulder started hurting again . on 8/25/06 .
unintentional roof fall number   8 belt number   11 cross-cut approximately 6,00 ft outby 1 right section . fall size : 25 ' x 20 ' x 4 ' . type roof supports : 4 ft conventional 5/8 '' roof bolts . note : fall was breakered   off and cleaned up and resupported with 5' torque tensioned bolts .
roof fall was found by mine safety and health administration outby survey station 1593 in the primary escape way for the 001 mobile mining unit could not see the distance the height of the fall appears to be above the anchorage zone .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis claim for donald duncan . he was termed due to mine closure on 8/25/2014 .
employee and coworker were changing right rear tire on service truck . tire was mounted and employee was checking the gauge when the sidewall exploded knocking him to the ground .
a fall of material from the roof of the k2 tunnel resulted in damage to the k2 conveyor . no miners were injured in the incident . the incident was called into mine safety and health administration via the 800 number as an immediately reportable accident .
employee was shoveling off a stalled conveyor . while using the shovel to clear off the conveyor , employee said he felt something `` pop '' in his groin area . employee did not notify anyone of the injury . on 9/27/ 03 , employee went to the hospital because of increased pain and obvious physical concerns . he is scheduled for a hernia operation .
while removing a tire coupling from dust pump number 1 in an attempt to keep coupling from falling , another employee and injured employee both had a hold of the coupling . while employee was slipping coupling off of shaft , other employee let go , injured employee did not . coupling fell on his hand and smashed his thumb between coupling and a hammer head .
employee stepped off a roofbolter onto a rock and twisted his left ankle .
employee strained back while carrying electrical equipment .
the incident was heat related. was a hot day and he had been in the sun for about an hour , became disoriented and was assisted to an air conditioned area and rehydrated. he was taken to the hospital where he was examined. he had been drinking several sodas - the sugar and caffeine could have been contributing factors. returned to work .
employee stated that he was moving mantrip when batteries shifted , catching his finger between frame of mantrip and batteries .
employee was drilling a hole with the fletcher bolter to set a roof bolt when a piece of roof coal ( bone ) broke loose from the top , hit the spinning drill steel and a 3 '' square piece of roof coal flew and hit him in the nose , breaking his nose .
on 2/22/12 a roof fall was found during weekly examination of the airways and was reported to mine safety and health administration . the fall was 16 ' long x 5 ' high x 20 ' wide . no interruption in ventilation occurred . no injuries occurred . no equipment was involved . area was cribbed and dangered off .
employee reports he was mixing nordback epoxy for cone liners for approximately   20 min . employee used 8 cans of nordback and was wearing rubber gloves . employee reports that after lunch his hands started to itch . then on the weekend , employee reported his hands swelled and became more irritated . employee reported to his supervisor on monday , 5/2/05 . causation = contact dermatitis . chemical .
a roof fall on the number 1 submain ; number 5 entry ; number 22 cross-cut . the fall was 5 ' to 8' high by 20' wide by 20' long . no injuries or property damage .
a nissan titan extended cab traveling north 129th east avenue in tulsa ran a stop sign at a   t   intersection , ramped a set of boulders and berms and fell into an inactive area of the mining pit .
employee was lifting and pulling a small trailer a short distance on cement in the garage . he then put it down on a stand when he felt pain . he went to a chiropractor . several hours later he was taping paper on a truck cab . then he lifted a one half gallon paint can at which time he felt excruciating pain .
employee positioned a cap wedge between the flight conveyor chain and the drive sprocket on the vessel and then instructed the plant operator to jog it . the chain broke causing the flight to reverse direction and pinch employee's left arm between the flight and the chute . employee was transported to charlston area medical center for x-rays but they were unable to test due to swelling . employee is currently off work awaiting mri .
employee alleges he didn't remove the snow on the chute and he was climbing up on the chute and he slipped on some ice . he broke a bone in his right ankle .
employee driving haul truck told fellow employee seat was hurting his back but did not report to foreman . fellow employee told foreman at end of shift . a new seat was put in haul truck . when employee returned to work on 7/12 he told foreman his back was hurting due to the seat in haul truck . employee was taken for medical exam .
employee was carrying bolts to the longwall face for the pan line bolter . when they set the bolts down onto the tray , they sliced their forearm on a bolt plate that was laying in the tray , causing a laceration .
the safety department informed me , on 3/21/07 , that employee was walking in the number 4 entry on sliding hill mains , when he stepped into a section of uneven ground and twisted his left knee .
while lowering the drill steel . the steel came out of the chuck and struck the individual on the end of the left thumb . the individual was seen at the hospital and diagnosed with a fracture to the left thumb .
the victim was operating diesel tractor pulling a water trailer . he drove to the surface area and parked the trailer . he then pulled away from the trailer and ran into a longwall shield which was stored on the surface area of the mine .
3 east mains number 6 entry at ss 21139. employee was assisting to saw a crib block , when a piece of roof fell out of overcast area 13 ft high and hit him on the neck resulting in lacerations requiring st itches .
on 3/22/05 employee reported to his supervisor that on 3/14/05 while he was rolling a conveyor belt at the sand plant , his back started hurting . then he lifted a tool box out of a company pickup truck hurting his back more . again , on 3/21/04 he was pulling cables to hook up to the dredge , hurting his back more .
employee was using a 36 '' pry bar to lift a slab of sandstone when the bar slipped out from under the stone causing the stone to fall on his right hand resulting in a contusion to his right ring finger . employee will be performing light duty work until next doctor appointment on 7/17/06 .
a roof fall occurred in the number 5 entry ( neutral airway ) in the intersection one break inby spad 3063 measured 18' long , 18' wide , 6 ' thick . soft shale with water bolted with 42 '' resin and 6 ' pont anchor bolts 850' outby face
employee was burning metal . after cutting through the piece , 1/2 of it slipped from table falling to floor . as it fell it pulled the hoses of the welding torch causing torch to fall . employee grabbed at torch   , bumping the oxygen valve opening it up . this caused an increased flame . the nozzle of the torch was pointed at left arm causing burn . went to er , given meds and antibiotics , returned to work
employee was at the finish mills catwalk . he stepped over the head pulley cover and stepped on the hose which caused him to twist his ankle .
while drilling a water well , the injured floor hand was making a drillpipe connection . the injured employee did not wait for the other floor hand to get tongs completely around the pipe , he put his hand in a pinch point , the tongs were then latched . injured employee had the tip of his left ring finger amputated .
the employee was on the surface of a clean dry barge in daylight hours with no movement and light wind . the employee passed through the number 2 port hatch opening and made contact with the empty hopper floor . cause is unknown . employee was installing a dust prevention tarp across the port hatch opening before the incident . the operator contests mine safety and health administration jurisdiction .
unintentional roof fall approximately   3-4 ' high x 40 ' long x 18-20 ' in width was discovered at approximately   2:30 am on 9-24-01 while inspecting main intake escapeway . spad 2064 - number   7 main in take escapeway   .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the new era mine at the 2e longwall beltline between cross-cut 10 and 11 , entry number 1 1525 east to 1675 east . the fall was approximately 30 feet long , approximately 18 feet wide and approximately 6 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation . the fall will be cleaned up . fall # 23k
employee was working in the finish mill removing liner plates and he experienced back pain in the process .
equipment operator with 3 weeks experience as a re-hire and 2 years experience previously with rgi , injured employee's ribs on employee's left side when employee fell approximately 4-5 feet on a rock . employee was attempting to ascend a track mounted volvo excavator .
while cleaning employee backed into grating and struck right forearm and rib area .
employee was putting scoria down on the roads with a scraper and hit a rough spot in the road . she was seen at the hospital and diagnosed with a back strain . she continued to work her full duties   , but her back continued to cause her pain . on 8-1-01 she went back to specialist and was told to stay off equipment if her back was to heal . she became a lost time as of 8-02-01 .
employee stated that while setting shields on the 14 left longwall face at 100 shield a piece of rock fell from the top and struck his left ankle .
the miner operator attempted to get the cable out of the roadway . a piece of rock rolled out of the rib striking him on the foot . he visited the emergency room and was found to be bruised . he was given a full release to return to work and did so . on 12/16/11 he visited specialist . doctor determined he had a hairline fracture in one of the metatarsal bones in his foot . he began missing work .
roof fall in the 4 west section number 6 entry 10 room the fall measuring 20 ft long , 24 ft wide , and 6 ft high . this area had been bolted with 3 ft resin bolts
a coworker was running from being sprayed by water from the water truck and accidentally ran into employee , knocking him down .
employee was walking down face and bumped head against canopy of shield . employee has had prior neck surgery employee started missing 4-4-04
employee was hauling from the pit to the jaw crushed . when the loader operator loaded employee's truck a larger rock rolled into the back of truck hitting the side of the bed and jarring the truck , thus causing employee to have some lower back pain . employee was taken to be evaluated and is being treated for a pinched nerve . doctor prescribed a steroid and physical therapy .
the injured person was on top of his trailer placing the tarp on the load and attached to a safety harness , he noticed that hook started moving inadvertently , he pulled and trying to step down the trailer he fell to the ground .
employee was operating a joy shuttle car . when he hit a hole in the haul road he jammed his head and shoulder into the canopy .
employee was pushing a filled number 50 bag of material onto a conveyor when he felt pain in his right shoulder . employee declined medical attention at the time of the incident . employee came back to work after time off on regular shift change and reported shoulder pain . medical appointment was made for employee for 11/29/2011 . employee was put on light duty on 12/02/2011 following a return doctor visit
employee stated that he stepped off of the cage and slipped . when he did he threw his hands out to catch himself his left hand was holding his dinner bucket and water jug . when he contacted the ground he injured his left thumb .
a roof fall measuring 20 ' long x 30 ' wide x 9' high occurred in the in the number 4 entry in the 10th right   panel at spad number 5490 on 7c belt . area was bolted with 5 ' tt bolts .
employee got off of truck to start drill , took a couple of steps and stepped awkwardly on a rock and twisted knee .
employee injured his right shoulder while shoveling in silo . he didn't seek medical attention and begin losing time until 5 may 2010 .
employee stated when employee was exiting the skid steer employee tripped over a bar on the plate of the skid steer falling on right hand - originally first aid - did not go to doctor until 08-29-2018
employee was operating a roof bolter . he was drilling a hole in the mine roof and had his left hand on the drill pot . a piece of draw rock fell , striking the left hand , and breaking the middle finger .
employee was changing the tail pulley on the scalper belt . as he aligned the parts the tail pulley slipped and crushed his hand . there were no broken bones but the laceration required 8 stitches .
employee had been scaling from a pettibone basket . the basket had been lowered by the pettibone operator to move to another location . employee that was injured had his left hand on top rail of basket frame work ( about waist high ) . pettibone operator was intending to move pettibone in reverse . operator placed control in forward inadvertently . the basket hit against a pillar , pushing the basket right
no actual accident occurred . possible `` wear and tear '' of job could be cause of tear of tendon in employee's shoulder . employee   reported that shoulder has been hurting for 1-2 years . no injury , went to company doctor on 4/8/08 , placed on restricted duty .
employee was unplugging a jaw . a rock fell and smashed his right third finger .
employee bumped head on concrete ceiling while attempting to change valve direction .
getting out of crew vehicle at end of shift with lunch box in hand when she tripped and fell to concrete hitting her right knee .
a roof fall occurred and initially fell from the number   1 entry over to the intersection of the number   2 entry . later the roof fell from the number   2 entry over to and including the intersection of the number     3 entry and from the last open cross-cut of the number   1 entry down the entry approximately   40 ' . the fall measured approximately   170 ' long by 18-20 ' wide by 5 ' thick . roof in the area consisted of laminated b
employee stated employee was installing roof bolts on the number   2 section in the number   5 entry . employee drilled the hole , inserted the glue and was placing the bolt head into the wrench . employee's left hand was pinched between the bolt/wrench , and the rotation was engaged . this resulted in the amputation of the tip of the left pinky finger , and dislocation and laceration of the left ring finger .
employee had been off from work with illness . he came to office and reported back injury . he had been under his personal doctors care.&nbsp; this injury/illness did not result from an accident .
employee was checking the batteries on a small mantrip . when he lifted the lid he felt a sharp pain in his right shoulder . this caused the employee to drop the lid down quickly .
while drilling a 10 ' hole in number 4 entry , employee was inserting a 4 ' middle piece of steel . he manuevered the pot over to make room for the steel. the pot moved farther than anticipated and pinched   his left index finger between the canopy and the drill steel .
employee had helped mechanic find and repair an air leak that was allowing dust into the duct work and cab area . employee removed louver from duct and was cleaning duct work when finger got into fan blade .
while doing overhead work , installing exhaust system a piece of the system fell down , striking employee in the face causing a gash on the right cheek and nose area
employee reported on august 10 , 2015 to his supervisor that he hurt his back while driving the endloader the last week of july , 2015. employee believes he twisted his back while pushing up product being unloaded from the barges onto the stockpile . it started out as an achy joint , but has gotten worse . employee did not communicate this to anyone before august 10 , 2015 .
employee filed an `` alleged '' occupational pneumoconiosis claim on 3/15/07 , received claim 2007007966 notice on 4/2/07 . he received a 10 % award for claim 93-67716 filed on 6/18/93 .
employee was picking up a 50 lb bag of sand when he felt a sharp pain in his right groin area . he is on modified duty with a groin strain .
employee was lifting a 12 '' pvc weight about 20 lbs . employee grabbed it with both hands rapidly lifting it , striking the i beam above his head . employee was taking by truck to seek medical treatment . employee was giving stitches and x-ray of his left ring finger . x-ray showed brake in lower finger next to joint and nail , employee was released wit no restrictions .
upon investigation it was determined that this was not a reportable roof fall . rock material dislodged from the roof along the travelway creating an area of unsupported top of approximately 30 feet . the dislodged material was not above the anchorage point of the initial support . the area was cleaned and additional bolts were added before the weekly was due .
man was helping with repairs to cone crusher and he just did not watch what he was doing and stepped backwards from the side of the crusher and stepped right off the main frame of the crusher and   fell off to the concrete pad under the crusher . he fell 6 1/2 feet .
while employee was tramming the bolter , a rock fell out from between the bolts striking employee on the right hand and arm .
an electrical power failure occurred affecting the deskins b shaft hoist
miner was walking down provided stairs and using handrails in rail car preparation area and upon stepping off of last step to the ground rolled right ankle . miner fell to the ground and continued work for several more minutes and then reported injury .
a roof fall was discovered on 2-26-01 in the a-2 mains return at 37 block in number   2 entry intersection and cross-cut 1 break inby the survey station no . 321. the fall was approximately 17 ft wide x 70 ft long x 8 ft high . contained 6 ft resin bolts and timbers . the area was developed 1-98. the fall has been dangered off and will be cleaned up .
employee claims he was injured handling rails . on 5/29/03 , additional days lost for previous injury ( 7000-1 ) dated 12/30/01 , was submitted to mine safety and health administration . a violation ( number 7107886 ) dated 6/12/03 was issued   requiring these additional days lost to be reported as a new accident . this 7000-1 is now submitted to terminate the violation . ( company investigation determined this to be a continuation of existing
employee was installing a ram jack pin on a shield . the employee slipped on a piece of slate , lost his balance . the ramjack fell on the employee's right index finger .
a roof fall was identified by a fireboss on the old 1st right   section at break 193 near spad # 999. the fall was approximately   18' wide x 250' long x 8'-10' high . the area was mined approximately   3/21/12 and was supported with 4 ' fully grouted resin bolts . the area will not be cleaned up and the area has been dangered off and timbers set .
employee was working outside using a 20 lb sledge hammer to loosen material that was stuck inside the chute . employee went in to cool off . about 10 minutes after employee tried calling to get ahold of someone because employee stated was cramping up and skin was hot clammy and employee was shivering .
the ground man was attempting to dislodge rock with a 5 ' pry bar . when the rock dislodged , employee was unable to stop momentum of the bar and struck his left hand pinky finger . employee was taken to emergency room for x-ray , which revealed a small angulated fracture on the little finger of his left hand . employee returned to work without restrictions .
the employee was working on throttle linkage inside cab of d8l dozer . removed floor cover to access linkage and standing down inside opening . left foot slipped causing ankle to twist . employee put on miner restrictions and given over-the-counter ibuprofen and ice . also give crutches if needed .
employee was removing heavy part ( u joint ) from under loader . once removed , it slipped from employees hand and fell to the ground pinching their finger between the part and the floor .
employee was operating a john deere 40 ton artic truck . while dumping a load of rock , a large rock flipped back and hit truck . this caused the employee to be jarred .
while riding to section brakes failed causing mantrip to strike rib .
employee fell while exiting the 482 scoop , falling on his left side bruising his hip , ribs , and leg .
as employee was working a rock fell from between pins striking his neck and left shoulder .
employee stated he was hanging curtain in the mine when he slipped and twisted his knee . employee continued to work until 8-6-04 when he consulted a doctor .
a roof fall occurred in the 2 west 4 mains @ 39 cross-cut , between number 4 and number 5 entries . the fall measures approximately 20 feet long , 18 feet wide and 5 ' thick . the area is supported with 5 foot fully grouted tension rebar bolts .
while using his feet to push a tire , employee hurt his lower back . he began missing work 10/2/08 from an injury that occurred on 6/25/08 that was diagnosed as degenerative disc disease .
employee was in storage trailer to get a box of cleaning towels , when getting down from storage trailer he jumped down and turned right ankle .
while pulling the recovery walker shields forward , a roof/face fall occurred on the b-7 longwall recovery room .
on may 19 , employee reported ever increasing pain in his left lower back and hip , which he attributes to years of repetitive motion working with heavy tools , standing on concrete and working in awkward positions in his job as a mechanic . on may 30 he began physical therapy to help alleviate the pain .
employee stated that while pulling top structure from between belts on 1214 belt , he felt a pop in his chest .
employee was helping the scoopman rock dust and a piece of rock fell and hit him on the head .
victim was lifting a screen and handing it to another employee when he pulled a muscle in his shoulder causing a strained shoulder .
while exiting a vehicle , the employee pushed the door closed with his right hand while moving away from the vehicle . his had was positioned such that it gripped around the edge of the door . as the door closed , the tip of his glove became pinched between the door and the door jam , preventing him from removing his entire hand . his middle finger remained in the pinch point of the door .
employee received flash burns to his eyes while working in proximity to welding operation . employee did not notice until after getting home . employee received treatment on 9/11/2009 . employee returned to normal duty on next scheduled shift .
employee's back became stiff and sore following working all shift hanging huesker mesh on the longwall recovery face .
a maintenance employee was taking a driveline out of a 789 cat haul truck . the employee stepped from the center cross frame member to one of the brake cans with his right foot . the employee then stepped onto the   transmission having with his left foot . the employee's left foot slipped from the transmission housing twisting the left knee .
employee was working on the hood latch of a lube truck at one point employee stated he turned and felt a catch in his knee . employee had continued to work , but because of recurring catching in the knee , went to see a doctor in may . an mri taken on may 19 showed a slight cartilage tear . employee continued to work until may 28,2003 when he went in for surgery . also previous knee surgery .
employee was working with machinery ( jack - leg ) was pulling on a 8 ft steel that was stuck in a underground hole a part of the steel broke off employee and another coworker fell back and jack hammer landed on his ( left ) knee .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 4 entry , left return of old 3 belt . fall measured 80 ft long , 19 ft wide and 8 1/2 ft high . this area is worked out . no equipment was involved , no personal injuries reported . ventilation and travelways were not affected . all approaches have been breakered off .
employee was observing another employee work , he bent down to check the progress of the employee and when he tried to stand up , he couldn't . was put on light duty until 4/21/03 then was taken off work . this was first day of lost time .
employee stated , while attempting to take a measurement to replace a section of pipe , injured placed his hand on the pipe causing the pipe to fall striking the employee in the back and right ankle . ( this will be a lost time )
employee was using a 12 lb sledge hammer as a backing plate while another employee was striking a pin into the pan feeder drive chain . a small shard of metal splintered off the pin and struck employee in the chin requiring stitches and removal of the 1/4 '' metal chip .
this driver was attaching the funnel tube to the discharge boom for loading . the funnel tube fell and jerked his arm .
employee climbed railing of steps . lost grip of railing and slipped and fell . heavy dew on ground that day .
employee slipped and twisted right ankle when getting out of truck .
employee was taking a bolt out of saddle on the boom . he was using a ratchet wrench . he was trying to break a bolt loose . while pulling on ratchet the bolt broke loose causing the employee to lose balance , his arm struck a piece of steel , which caused a laceration .
on 05/03/2017 injured employee reported that employee had been treated for a sore shoulder from employee's personal physician since february and that employee now thought it may be work related . injured employee received restrictions on 05/03 . on 05/10/2017 injured employee received results of mri showing a degenerative condition which could be a result of overuse . injured employee could not determine any single event which caused injury .
employee was pulling 21 ' drill steel by hand , strained low left back .
employee reported pain in middle back after operating a bulldozer to rip and push a layer of rock . referred to physician who prescribed physical therapy for treatment . no work restrictions or lost workdays occurred as a result of this injury .
while picking up a part in the warehouse , employee was transporting the part on a hand truck . the part came off the hand truck , employee placed the part back on the hand truck pinching his left middle finger   between the part and the hand truck . note : employee did not see a doctor until 10-4-03. he was treated and released with back to work slip . employee informed progress of the nature `` broken bone '' until 10-
employee was hanging bolter cable in the number 5 entry when his knee went out .
employee picked up a sledge hammer and turned at the same time . he felt pain in his lower back .
on 7/23/16 a miner reported a possible fire on a 2 yard loader at 44w 14300 mining block . the mine was evacuated and it was called into mine safety and health administration . working with mine safety and health administration local field office , mine rescue teams entered the area and found no fire had occurred . an investigation team found the source to be coolant leaking on the exhaust and therefore this was not an immediately reportable incident .
a roof fall zero to 8 feet thick occurred on the off walkway side of the stageloader approximately 30 feet in length . 8 foot resin roof bolts 1 to 2 in each row failed at the anchorage zone in number 3 entry b-8 headgate inby cross-cut 16 .
employee was cleaning the b-3 beltline when he struck his hand against the belt structure resulting in a laceration . employee was sent to a hand clinic on 06/06/02 where 6 were applied .
company was notified that employee was granted an award of 6.7 % for permanent impairment resulting from noise-induced hearing loss .
the miner was installing wire . he had propped the wire to hold it while he prepared to drive another bolt , he started the bolt in the hole by hand , he bent down to get the driver . the prop slipped   . as the wire dropped it popped the bolt from the hole . the bolt fell striking the miner causing the cut to the miners eyebrow .
injured and another employee were carrying 48 '' troughing idler up an outside conveyor belt , in order to replace an idler . injured experienced lower back pain . may 28 , 2010 was his first day off work .  
employee pulling on conveyor belt , misstepped and made knee sore . knee has been x-rayed with no damage done . will get an mri next .
employee was working with hand railing , when wasps came out of railing . employee was stung on both forearms . later in evening , employee's arms started to swell and the next morning the employee was taken to the clinic and given a steroid shot for the swelling . employee did not miss any time and released by doctor after follow up visit for observational purpose on 8/20/08 .
a roof fall was found by pre-shift examiner on 1/28/07 cross cut 68-69 entry 6 , 6ims . fall was in 4-way intersection that had been mined december 2005 and supported with 5 and 6 foot resin bolts . no injury or property damage resulted . there are no plans to clean up fall .
as employee was getting ready to put in the pin hole , he stepped on a rock and jarred his lower back . began missing work 6/11/01 .
employee was doing plant maintenance when he discovered he had an acetylene leak on torch . he inhaled the acetylene .
two miners were on top of the miracle run elevator ( 30 ' from top ) chipping ice off shaft wall , that was found in the previous inspection . a piece of ice fell and tripped the limit switch on shaft bottom causing an entrapment for approximately   85 minutes . no problems with training , personal protective equipment , mining machines or compliance issues .
operator was working on fuel filter on dozer . stepped back and fell hitting left knee , was transported to summersville regional hospital by ambulance , referred to a specialist for ongoing treatment
employee was diagnosed with left carpal tunnel syndrome that is work related . on november 20 , 2017 buzzi unicem usa concluded that employee's diagnosis is a new claim , not something that was caused by a previous injury .
person was getting up onto bolter from the head end of bolter . he had to step up 15 '' from the ground onto bolter platform , when he stepped up he heard a pop in his right leg below the knee . the   area swelled up and was painful . went to hosp and x ray showed stress fracture to leg .
employee was building super cribs in intake . he was lifting an 8 ' timber up to another employee when he dropped it . timber struck his left knee as it fell .
employee failed annual audiogram test . audiologist evaluation 4/8/08 . audiologist required mri 4/10/08 and reevaluated end of may . not recommend for hearing aid . evaluation to factor was age , genetics vs environmental reason for loss of hearing . no loss time or restricted duty .
hot product from kiln number 5 moving from the cooler bed , caused the 89-801 conveyor belt to catch on fire . the fire lasted for approximately   45-60 minutes and was extinguished by the volunteer fire dept . employee was taken to the hospital because of smoke inhalation , was treated and released .
in pump room of dredge taking bell housing off of the power take-off . the housing was stuck on the shaft so they used a portapower to remove it . the housing suddenly shot off of the shaft about 8 '' striking the employees right hand .
claimant and employee went to get hose from water truck . pulling the water hose claimant felt a `` pop '' in his back .
employee was picking the mantrip back onto the track when his right middle finger got mashed between the jack bar and mantrip . he returned to work on june 2 , 2004 due to his 6/3 work schedule . no scheduled days were missed .
employee was driving service vehicle and a piece of rock fell hitting his shoulder and causing a bruise .
injured was operating roof bolting machine along with another employee . upon entering the area , they found the ribs to be in good condition . after installing 3 rows of bolts , they advanced to install the fourth . injured had positioned the machine and drilled the bolt hole when a section of rock and coal fell from the rib pinning his leg against the machine and fracturing his ankle .
employee stated that while pulling a hydraulic hose he fell and felt a pain in his back
employee was holding the carousel jack in place during installation . the head of the jack retracted , smashing his left thumb . chipped bone and ten stitches .
while changing out screens employee lifted the one end of the screen and then turned the screen so he could hook the end of the screen to the boom truck hook to raise it out and in . he twisted his right   knee . note : he did not see a physician for this until 7/26/01 .
the roof in number 2 entry between number 27 and number 28 cross-cut fell for approximately   28 feet long 6 ft to 9 ft high and 14 ft wide . the roof was fully bolted and screened . loose and fractured roof contributed to the unexpected fall . the location is in the 5th left longwall bleeder return was found on weekly examination of the area .
a fully trained miner was tramming the roof bolter from 0 to 1 entry . the machine made contact with the rib line and a piece of metal on the canopy struck employee in the right ear causing a laceration . the injury was not result of any compliance issues nor did it involve any protective devices .
employee was hoisting a tool bucket with a winch line and put his right hand into a pinch point between the pulley and the clamp on the wire rope . transported to the medical center and stitches were used to close the wound . he was released for work with no restrictions .
on 01/18/10 employee's wife reported that the employee had injured himself while operating his dozer on 01/14/10 and not reported the injury . now on 01/18/10 he was in pain and needed to go to the doctor this accident is under investigation because it was not reported before leaving mine property and pending results of the investigation , this accident report may be requested to be withdrawn .
he was putting up roof bolt and a rock ~1 '' thick x 36 '' x 24 '' fell on legs after he fell back out of the way . rock landed on both legs bruising them below knees .
on 10/26/11 a lab tech was found in the lab storage room crying . he said he had chest pain and shortness of breath . emergency medical technicians on scene at 2:05 pm . employee is overweight , has high blood pressure and diabetes , heart attack was suspected . at 3:15 employee arrived at the hospital and was stable and responsive . on 10/27/11 employee called and said he was ok .
employee was cleaning the hammermill when a coworker stepped on the bearing causing one of the hammers to fall on the top of his left hand . employee had a small abrasion on the top of his left hand causing tenderness to the top of his hand , two fingers , wrist and upper forearm .
employee was moving roof bolter from number 2 left entry to number 3 heading . he placed his hand on drill pot and by mistake , hit the fast feed up lever on the controls . the drill pot raised pinching his right index   finger between the drill pot and operator canopy .
employee twisted his left knee as he was going into the motor control center room located at the end of the number 10 belt . employee did not start missing time from this injury until 04/09/2012 .
employee was on top of sand silo doing electrical work . he slipped , grabbed a bar above his head , trying not to fall , injured right shoulder .
employee was helping move rock along conveyor ; rock fell on his hand and cut pinky finger of left hand .
employee stepped on bumper of truck to reach portable torch . bumper was covered with snow and ice and employee slipped and fell to the ground , causing strain to his back and right leg . he did not seek treatment until 3/19/04 .
at 6:31 am an explosion occurred behind the old 2 left mains seals resulting in the death of this employee . mine safety and health administration , state and company investigation has been initiated but results not yet available .
when freeing a stuck drill steel , the employee chipped a front tooth .
member was in process of moving up flypads . he went to get his hammer off continuous miner . a piece of rib rolled out hitting him in his back causing him to stumble and strike his forehead .
while working on the crusher employee fell and struck the side of the crusher . he was wearing a self-retracting fall protection harness but he swung into the side of the crusher resulting in injuries to his face and left arm . he received stitches for his injuries .
he was making his pre-shift on 980f endloader and he slipped and fell causing injury to his right knee and ankle ( strain ) .
employee was attempting to lift the boiler gun off the tool room table and in the process of doing so began coughing very hard and felt a strain in his abdominal area . he noticed a bulge and attempted to push it back in . employee was taken for examination and diagnosed with a hernia . employee was given modified duty until surgery can be scheduled . employee called off the next day due to pain
knee popped out of place while working in the finish room . employee was kneeling down and when he stood up his knee popped .
employee was lighting a leaded petroleum burner that is installed through the bottom of a screen deck ( for drying mud caked on the screens ) . the torch failed to light , so the employee went to get a new striker , believing he was allowing enough time for gas to dissipate . the mud buildup on the screens did not allow for the gas to dissipate , and upon returning and attempting to light the torch , the buildup of gas
employee was observing the mining machine while cutting coal , when a piece of rock fell from the roof and struck him on the head and shoulder causing a laceration by his right eye required 6 sutures .
mantrip caught on fire and burned for about 40 minutes . mantrip sustained damage to engine / drive train components . cause of fire is not known .
unintentional roof fall number 48 cross-cut main east between number 6 and number 7 entry . 12' long x 14 ' wide x 4 ' high . bolted with 6 ' tension rebar bolts . called recorder . didn't fall above anchorage , should not have been called in . marked out and propped off area .
employee was cleaning out from under palletizer at plant 5. employee raised up and hit hard hat on steel framing of machine . reported to supervisor on 3/24 , requested medical treatment at that time . strain to neck .
an ignition occurred at 65+74 on the f-19 longwall face at number 92 shield . the ignition was instantaneous with no timeable duration . it was self extinguished by the shearer water sprays . there were no injuries to personnel or damage to any equipment . there was a visible sandstone channel ranging from 1 '' to 6 '' from 90 to 135 shield .
employee was operating a diesel tractor dragging roadways when a piece of rock fell from between pattern bolts striking him in the left knee . he continued to work until a medical evaluation on 4/27/06 revealed the need for arthroscopic knee surgery . this accident became reportable on 4/27/06 .
while removing muffler from dragline engine , employee slipped and strained left knee . on follow-up visit 4/12 to doctor's office the diagnosis for surgery was made and scheduled for 4-13-01 .
employee was exiting cab of locomotive and while stepping out on the two steps that stepped down to the cat walk he did not get solid contact with the 2nd step and twisted his leg . he grabbed the rail and stopped his fall but his leg hit the catwalk with a lot of force ... breaking the bone below the knee in 2 places .
employee swinging 16 pound doublejack . finger pinched between handle of doublejack and object he was striking at .
removing trash from supply car , a box had metal banding material hanging from it . when he picked it up to throw into dumpster , the banding struck his nose causing a laceration that required sutures to close . after treatment he returned to work with no restrictions .
witness was driving 007 tom car out of the work area and employee was the passenger . he encountered some dust by drive section of 150 and continued to drive through it but misjudged the turn off and hit a pillar block . employee hit his right knee on the front frame of the passenger seat , causing a laceration to his knee . required stitches , no lost time , no restrictions .
employee was removing roller from dozer . he attempted to pull roller off machine . one end of roller slipped and pinned his hand . the employee's   finger was caught between roller and rock on the ground . the employee's   finger got broke as a result . employee finished job , then he realized the finger was broke .
was turning with shovel in hand when felt pain in right side
employee was pressure washing backhoe tracks off to send backhoe in for repairs . wash sprayed gravel back into his mouth . he bit down on gravel and broke/cracked his tooth on the bottom left side of his mouth .
employee was lifting a vfp box for a miner , up to put on a supply car and felt pain in his back .
while installing the bolts that connect the top shell to the bottom shell of the crusher , employee was holding the head of the bolt from the bottom and using 2 fingers to support the center of the bolt . another associate began to tighten the nut , the bolt spun , grabbing employee's fingers and spinning them across the steel plate deck . the steel deck sliced the middle finger .
while exiting crane employee was stepping onto a catwall , and fell approximately   6 ' to the ground .
mob . mech . was replacing alternator on d-10 tractor . access is through a hole in floorboard of cab . he was reaching through the hole to install alternator when he felt pain in his left shoulder . he completed job and contacted foreman re : incident . he was seen by company doctor on 9/24 and referred for ortho consult . he saw ortho doctor on 9/30 and was prescribed physical therapy and given a 20 lb . lifting rest .
employee was wire brushing a mantle for 48fc telsmith in preparation of assembly . small piece of wire from the brush went up under his safety glasses .
roof fall old room set up in number 4 entry one cross-cut outby spad # 415. roof fall for about 10 ' long and fell out from nothing to about 5 or 6 ' high . the area was double rowed posted and dangered off all access .
employee was shooting a klinker out of the number 2 rotary kiln , he was using an 8 gauge winchester ring blaster . when he fired a shell into the rotary kiln , something ricocheted back at him , a piece of metallic material penetrated the right side of his neck . the foreign object measured 3 mm x 2 mm . his doctor is going to remove it when the swelling goes down .
employee stated that strained his back while lifting a belt roller .
employee was cleaning up in the hydrate bag area when a bag of lime broke and caused some lime to get in his right eye. this became a lost time on 4/28/11 with restrictions that prevented him from doing his job . he got a full release on 4/29 and worked through 5/2 until the doctor put the restrictions back . he is again lost time as of 5/3/11
employee was removing 3 '' water line that was hooked to the hydroseeding truck . pump that was hooked to truck was on automatic . when the employee unhooked the line the pumped kicked on and the hose struck the employee in the neck causing a laceration requiring stitches .
employee was driving tractor trailer . the roadway to the refuse site had been watered to suppress dust . the temperature had dropped and the roadway froze partially . employee was blinded by bright sunlight and his speed was exceeding the 10 mph   limit . the truck failed to negotiate a turn and drove off the road , striking a cement wall .
employee was changing out a pump when the shaft slipped and caught his two left fingers between the bottom of the sleeve nut and top of the gland . the employee received stitches on one finger and further treatment on the other finger . the employee has not returned back to work .
during an inspection of the hart street elevator by mine safety and health administration inspector a damaged place was discovered on the governor rope near the bottom sheave . the hoist was immediately taken out of service and the mine safety and health administration one call center was notified .
while cleaning along side screening plant , a particle of debris had gotten in his eye . i flushed impacted eye , numerous times . the employee still felt pain . i then sent him to our medical center for further treatment .
employee was dismounting a mantrip , while getting out of mantrip he struck right knee on a link of chain that was welded to side of mantrip . lost work days began 11/3/04 .
employee was in the process of changing the bit on his drill rig when the bit slipped and landed on his middle finger .
employee was unchoking gypsum from basement area . employee picked up a steel bar weighing in excess of 80 lbs to begin poking area . after 5 minutes , he felt a pain in his stomach .
employee was unloading parts off of a supply truck . he was pulling on a large cardboard box setting on a skid in order to position it to be picked up by a forklift . in the process of pulling on the box , one corner ripped off throwing employee off balance . he fell backwards off the truck bed . while falling , he struck a box that was being moved by a forklift . then he fell to the ground with all
employee slipped and fell on the steps when going down to the number 1 belt to pump water out of the sump hole . he was placed on restrictions after seeing a hand specialist on 12/19/00 .
employee was walking from crusher back to loader when he stepped on side of six inch rock , foot slipped off rock , causing pain in lower back . after examination by doctor on monday , he recommended   that employee be kept off duty status until all issues of employee's condition are resolved .
bolter had installed last bolt in a row , dropped trs and trammed drill forward . he was not paying attention and had his foot under the tire of the drill .
was opening lid on pneumatic tanker when employee pulled up on lid hand slipped . when employee was climbing back up the ladder , employee noticed finger was bent a little and was not completely straight . the doctor is stating that employee has acute mallet - finger defect ( ruptured extensor tendon ) to distal interphalangeal joint of right 4th ( ring ) finger .
v shaped rock 7' x 14' x 8 '' fell out between bolts , hit on bolter , slid off and hit employee ' right leg/foot .
employee was about to help coworkers change v-belts on crusher when he began to not feel well . employee had taken his blood pressure that morning , . employee said he did not feel good , light headed and somewhat dizzy . coworkers told employee to sit down in the shade and rest . he was diagnosed with heat exhaustion by doctor .
employee was being trained as a stacker . he reached on the chain belt for a bag of material ; his glove and hand were caught in the chain belt . resulted in distal amputation of end of right middle finger.   returned to work with restrictions 9/17/02 .
employee stated that the bolter was moving from the face area to load supplies onto the bolter . as the bolter was moving , employee was attempting to move the cable out of the way , when the track mounted bolter pivoted on a rise in the bottom and the deck end of the bolter came down on his right foot .
employee fractured his little finger ( left ) when it was caught between the level wind and the mounting bracket .
employee was checking water levels in the scoop battery when the lid fell onto his left wrist/arm . lost time injury
employee was loading a car with the miner in the number   4 entry . a piece of draw rock fell striking him on the back of the right leg . he was transported to the williamson memorial hospital for treatment .
employee was under dozer doing maintenance , while crawling out he hit leg on a rock . notified supervisor on 8/20 , went to emergency room on 8/21 .
employee was welding on a tip cylinder and a small piece of slag went into his boot ( bb size ) and burnt his right calf a week later the leg became swollen and painful treated for staph infection
employee was repinning the intersection of number 2 entry . a rock fell from in between bolts and hit his leg and pinner steel that were layed across the boom of the bolter , in turn the steels truck him in the groin area , crossing a tear in his urethra .
employee was cutting a flight out of the head drive with cutting torches , when a piece of slag fell into his right ear .
tech was reinstalling rim base components . he had his left hand on components adjusting to position properly. side ring slipped from tire positioning hand and caught finger tips of fingers on left hand between bead seat band and side flange . amputated pinky finger at 1st knuckle , laceration index finger , loss of finger tips to ring and middle finger .
employee was adjusting the forks on a skidsteer unit to be able to pick up scrap . as he reached between the backing plate and the mast to unlock pin holding forks in place the operator tilted the forks back pinning his arm between backing plate and the mast . employee ended up with a slight fracture and some minor muscle damage on left forearm .
while inch tramming roofbolt on next row of bolts rock fell striking him in back of right leg .
1085 hoist main ac breaker would not reset due to programmable logic controller output error . system was rebooted and all checks were completed . there was no damage to the hoist .
the employee was removing angle iron framing and wood from a motor control center building . the employee used methods of drilling and cutting during the task , and all work was above the employee's head . the employee was wearing a pair of safety glasses at the time of the incident . a piece of debris flew in between the employee's safety glasses and forehead and lodged in his ( right ) eye .
employee was operating a miner in number 6 entry number 3 unit , standing between pins . a rock fell out and landed on his right foot . the rock was approximately 62 '' x 42 '' x 0-6 '' thick .
injured employee was lifting the continuous miner trailing cable when they felt pain and a burning sensation in the stomach area . injured employee didn't violate any rules/regulations and has proper training . wearing appropriate personal protective equipment . injury caused by overexertion due to lifting .
employee alleges as he was getting off the machine he stepped on a sharp rock and sprained his left foot . he felt pain and that something had broken in his left knee . employee had surgery on that knee and has not returned to work . not expected to return to work for at least 3 to 4 months .
injured person and two other employee were retrieving 7200 cable   from one area and rehanging it in another area along track . person has continued to have pain in the elbow and went to doctor 4-2-04. person received cortisone shot and arm immobilized . 1st day off work 4-5-04 .
employee was operating roof bolter his left hand was on the roof bolt when he hit the rotation lever employee's glove caught on the bolt . employee sustained a fractured wrist and amputation of his ring and little   fingers .
employee had transported another employee from the dredge to the pond dock by boat . dock rolled over and employee jumped into the boat . boat tipped forcing employee into water . employee then got back on shore and felt a throbbing   pain in lower back and testicle area a few hours later .
employee was helping to clean out the chute to the impact crusher . he was moving the jackhammer and mashed his little finger between the jackhammer and the side of the impact crusher .
operator was dismounting from a haul truck , had right foot on the ground and when ie placed left foot on the ground stepped on a small rock which resulted in twisting ie left knee . ie experienced pain in left knee and when initial medical evaluation was completed was taken off work pending mri .
employee loaded oil box cover onto little mac to bring outside for repairs . as he loaded the cover he felt a sharp pain in the lower and upper back towards the left shoulder and back area . employee did not start missing work until 11-4-02 .
injured was setting a wooden post ( 5 '' x 6 '' x 60 '' ) under a   c   channel approximately 40 feet outby the face area . as the employee reached behind the post and started to move it under the channel , a piece of rock 1 '' x 6 '' x 12 '' fell off the top of the   c   channel striking the employee on his left wrist .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number   6 track entry one cross-cut inby survey station 1917 measuring approximately   20 ' w x 20 ' long x 6 ' high. the fall appeared to be a horseback , slick-sided rock .
employee reported back pain after operating loader . no specific incident known .
employee was climbing out of a truck . as he stepped onto the ground he twisted his left ankle . medical treatment sought on 1/11/01 . follow-up visit on 1/15/01 resulted in restricted duty .
injured employee misstepped and fell while dismounting a grader after turning on the equipment master switch . he fractured his left wrist in attempt to brace himself while falling .
the shearer operator reported seeing two orange and blue flames about the size of a gallon jug come out of the top and go down the panline lasting for 2-3 seconds as the shearer approached 107 shield mining from the tail to the head . the lone observe said the flames were put out by the drum sprays and the spray bar on the shearer .
employee was attempting to hang a back up curtain when he pulled down a piece of draw slate , it struck him on the right   hand causing a laceration .
employee stated they went through man door at 1a near spad number 445 into the intake and slipped on a small pile of rocks and twisted the left knee . employee finished the shift and later sought medical treatment and was prescribed crutches . this incident is being reported as medical reportable due to crutches .
employee twisted right knee while opening valve .
employee was in the process of emptying a   b   silo .
employee reported that he was diagnoseed with carpal tunnel syndrome of both the left and right hands and would have them released .
unintentional roof fall 25 ' inby spad number 6429 . 80 ' ( long ) x 20 ' ( wide ) x6 ' to 7 ' ( thick ) .
employee was placing a metal hood on a motor and he cut his finger on the edge of the hood .
outside pellet mill , payloader was coming towards him , operator of payloader was brining the bucket downward toward level position , foot was pinched by bucket
employee got something to small to see in his eye . it was removed by a medical procedure . there is no damage or impairment . he is under no restrictions .
employee was spot bolting and mashed his right thumb on the boom
had water line for miner over shoulder pulling up slack and struck a low hanging roof bolt with the top of his head . later while using slate bar to pry conveyor chain around sprocket , felt pain in neck , between shoulder blades and upper back .
employee was welding wear bars on the bottom of the dragline bucket . he set up a wire feed welder to run on a track torch . he proceeded to weld on the bars with another welding machine . after almost a full shift of welding he noticed he had flashed his eyes .
injured has swelling and great pain in right knee that doctor states is a result of having to work and crawl on knees . no specific time or instance can be listed as this occurred over a period of time . first day of missed work 1-12-00 .
employee informed management of back pain on 2/12/2013 . employee had been running a skidsteer loader/water truck. did not see physician until 2/15/2013 , an mri was scheduled for diagnosis . 2/21/2013 physician diagnosis   was a bulging/ruptured disk in lower back. placed on light/sedentary duty . item being treated as work related unless/until directed otherwise by phys .
employee was raising a hinged shield on a brookeville ulpc-9b mantrip in order to access the brake head compartment , when he felt a `` pull '' or `` strain '' in his lower back he was raising the shield . he continued to work until 8/1/03 .
employee was shoveling on belt , employee went to turn to throw material onto the belt and felt pain in back when he twisted wrong . personal protective equipment was not a factor , compliance rules/regulations was not a factor , mining equipment/system was not a factor , miner proficiency was a factor .
twisted back while dismantling and moving crusher equipment . allegedly happened on 7/15 but employee worked 7/16 and 7/17 then called off work on mon . 7/19 and said he was going to the chiropractor . he was observed moving gingerly on 7/16 and when plant manager asked what happened he said he thought he may have twisted his back on 7/15 but that he would be ok .
while installing roof support , employee activated the rotation lever when a roof bolt bent as he was pushing it into the top , resulting in a laceration to his wrist and palm that requires several stitches to close .
employee was cutting a piece of flat bar on the power band saw . when the cut was done , he took his right glove to turn the power off and then released the vise and grabbed the bar to remove . with his glove off , he cut his right index finger on the bar .
employee alleges self was cleaning skid loader lock arms and employee attempted to set the attachment lock and it slipped off of the machine and cut left shin . employee received stitches .
no accident roof fall at station number 1458 approximately   60 to 70 feet long 6 to 7 ft high 18 ft wide .
moving shuttlecar anchor , employee stepped onto ladder ( with anchor ) ladder tipped over hopped off the ladder landing on a rock with his left foot . degree 5
an unintentional roof fall has occurred at the old number 6 headings number 5 entry spad 6538. the fall was approximately 20 ft x 20 ft x 6 ft . no injuries were reported and no equipment was involved .
while pulling trailer up to pintle hitch on truck the employee states he pulled a muscle in his back . the employee has had previous back injuries . this appears to be a re-injury of the same back location . physician indicates restricted activity and physical therapy visits .
employee was driving 1552 truck and at the end of his shift he complained of a sore back from the truck seat . he was evaluated by a physician and physical therapy was started 12/28/00 .
an employee preparing a hammer breaker at the jaw crusher when the pry bar employee was holding slid suddenly causing the side of employee's hand to be pinched , resulting in a laceration requiring five sutures .
a fall of roof occurred in the 4th right panel off of the 2nd south west submain at cross-cut 15 - 16 , number 1 entry . the fall measured approximately 18 feet wide x 100 feet long x 7 feet thick . the area was supported with 5 foot fully grouted roof bolts .
9 left longwall employee was on number 6 shield , when left foot slipped off while his head was being pushed off . his left foot was caught between the relay bar and the jack base .
employee states he was walking near spillway and fell in hole caused by wash out . given prescription for pain 1 week after incident
injured was changing out a basket in the preparation plant . as he was cleaning the old basket a piece of dirt got in his eye . he went to the doctor on 4-13-15 and his eye was flushed out with prescription medication .
on 7/10 , employee felt soreness in right shoulder when using a 2 lb hammer . employee then used a 20 lb hammer and felt more soreness . on 7/18 , employee reported injury and requested to be seen by doctor employee was diagnosed with shoulder pain and returned to work to regular position . on 9/14 , employee requested to be seen by emergency room for shoulder pain . employee was released to return to work on 9/17 with restrictions .
employee was walking in the section when he struck his hard hat against a j channel supported from the roof .
employee was moving wire when another employee attempted to start the wire saw twisting employee's finger . employee said the accident happened on 9-16-2013 but did not report the accident to anyone until 12-16-2013 , 3 months later . he was at work everyday since 9-16-2013 and continues to work up to the time of this report . employee went to the doctor on and they said he might need surgery .
the elevator at the number 9 portal went out of service at 4:15 am . there was no one on the elevator , no one trapped . the incident was caused by a bad wire from the hen house to the pit . schindler elevator service was called and the elevator was back in service by mid morning .
injured employee was helping with the longwall recovery . the material in the pumpable cribs had mixed with the mud and water on the recovery face . employee had gotten this chemical on the back of legs and buttocks . it caused chemical burns to the skin . the doctor kept employee off for 5 days due to the burns .
employee was handling rockdust bags and strained his right elbow
employee was installing liner in head boxes of conveyor . employee lifted liner around waist high and felt a strain in his back . the liner weighed approximately   75 lbs .
a fall of roof occurred in the number 3 entry , in the 3d panel at cross-cut 35. the fall was approximately 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 8'- 10 ' high .
while rappelling during a mine rescue training , the employees left knee twisted when they contacted the ground . the employee did not seek any medical attention for several weeks . the anterior cruciate ligament was torn and required surgery on 9/16/15 . work activities were not restricted until that date .
while bending over to pick up a piece of paper between seats in mantrip van , employee twisted his back . he has had a history of back problems . reason being late mine has been on vacation shut down .
the injured was pulling cable off reel of shuttle car in the process he felt a pain in his lower back as he was pulling and twisting on the cable
a non injury roof fall was discovered in the number 1 south panel in the number 6 entry at 2375 and 2386 spad approximately 40 ft long 18 ft wide and 10 ft thick . neither ventilation or primary escapeway were effected . the affected area has been cribbed off and dangered off .
cold weather caused the bins to stop up employee was using a long bar to dislodge material into the truck bed . shortly after employee complained about muscle spasm in bicep of right arm .
the employee was getting out of his truck on the job site , when his back gave out and he said his back hurt . the employee stated it felt like he pulled his back . panel doctors said it was a pulled muscle .
employee was helping drill operator pull hose when employee fell and injured left ankle
employee was hanging ventilation curtain , his foot was sticking out from underneath curtain , pinner ran over right foot causing contusion .
conductor mounted the cut of loaded rail cars to protect the move to the hill , and as he mounted the rail car , pulled a muscle in his right shoulder . employee was instructed by doctor to be off work and attend physical therapy for a potential muscle tear . foreman was not made aware of incident until 11/30/2008 .
the employee was at the 5320 supply lay down loading 4 foot split set bolts into the left-hand drive bucket when employee's hand caught the banding that holds the bundles of bolts together .
emerald number 1 elevator went down at 4:03 am on 5/30/2015 due to a plc fault . the elevator was down until 5:18 am when the plc fault was cleared and the elevator was put back in service .
employee reported that she was moving pallets into the elevator with the walkie stacker and when backing out of the elevator she had her arms fully extended when the jack caught on something and stopped   abruptly .
the elevator in number 6 shaft became inoperable when , after ascending to the surface landing the doors would not open . it was found that a solenoid on the mine bottom used to control the doors there   had burned up .
the door on side of stedmon mill was frozen . employee was trying to pry it open . he lost grip and the door sprung back catching tip of his left little finger between the door frame and the door . the door is constructed of 3/4 '' steel plate . the frame is also steel . employee received a fracture to his left pinky finger .
while installing pipe spool on tb-20 exhaust stack , some hot slag popped off weld and went down his sleeve . slag stuck to his watch band and burned his left wrist before he could get his glove   off .
while performing his normal duties as a working supervisor employee experienced pain/swelling in both knees . employee returned to work his next shift however the following day he received medical attention of which he was diagnosed as having prepatellar bursitis and consequently started missing work on 08/25/2010 making this reportable .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on the unit 5 entry 8 cross-cut 41. the roof fall measured approximately 18 ' in length , 17 ' in width , and 10 ' in thickness . a 103 ( k ) order ( 8448265 ) , was issued march 22 , 2013 , by mine safety and health administration inspector .
employee was putting together a 4 '' plastic water line . he was striking the end with an ax to join it together . a piece broke off the end and struck him on the thumb . broke his right thumb .
employee had his hand laying on the side of the boom , when some material fell off the top of the canopy , striking him in the hand and cutting his left ring finger . the employee received 3 stitches in his finger .
we were notified on february 10 , 2014 that employee has been diagnosed with black lung disease .
employee was struck by a left-hand drive as it passed by him in a 12.5 ' wide drift while going around a curve . the contact broke a bone on the outside of the left hand , a bone at the tip of the little finger on the left hand and cracked two bones on the outside of the lower spine .
a roof fall measuring 20 ' long , 20 ' wide and 9 ' thick was discovered inby spad 2938 number 2 entry in the old # number 6 mains . the fall was 3600 ' outby the working section , ventilation , equipment , and the travel of personnel was not affected . no injuries occurred from the fall , the type of roof support in the area was 48 '' resin bolts .
driver and passenger where driving down haul road to pete bajo pit from leeville . when trying to make left hand turn the truck rolled onto the passenger side .
employee was operating a loader , he hit a rock or bump and it caused him to hit his left rib cage on the armrest of his seat . the impact fractured a rib on his left side . he was wearing his seatbelt .
while eating employee got something in her right eye . other employee's washed it out and employee still complained about pain in her eye . she was taken to concentra where her eye was determined to have been chemically burned .
employee was walking out of the mill building and slipped on the ice . poor weather conditions . employee did not go to the doctor until 2-25-00. went to chiropractor/diagnosis grade 1 sprain to right shoulder .
while changing a drill and reamer bit on 75k tamrock production drill employee . pinched right middle finger tip between bushing and drill bit causing hairline fracture in the very tip of finger .
employee cut middle finger of the left hand with a pocket knife while cutting plastic banding straps that held boxed bolts to a pallet .
an unintentional fall of the mine roof was discovered at the number 65 cross cut along the longwall panel . the fall was approximately 80 ' long and 4-12 ' high . the fall was immediately reported by phone .
employee was underground hanging pumpable bag . timber creeped out and a large rock fell from top , pinned him to mine floor from knees to upper body .
employee was cleaning a drinking glass when the glass slipped from her hands and broke , leaving shards of glass in the sink and a bowl full of dirty water . the employee reached into the bowl of water to retrieve   a piece of glass and the glass stuck into the palm of her hand .
employee was positioned on a longwall support pontoon to remove a relay bar bolt while the armored face conveyor panline was being dismantled/removed out by him . as the outby section of pan line was removed , it created a jarring motion of the pan line where the employee was working and struck the employees knee , causing pain/injury .
employee operated several front end loaders over a 24 year period . he developed carpal tunnel syndrome in right wrist from operating the controls over this time period .
employee was trimming packing material with a serrated knife for a tail bearing installation on fm3 dust collector . employee stated was not having efficient success , so switched to using a box cutter . during the process of cutting action ( towards body in a sitting position ) the box cutter slipped off material , then cut a three inch gash in upper thigh .
employee was holding loose end of water line when another employee pulled on water line causing his left little finger to get caught between 2 water lines . ( required stitches . )
04/2006 stepped on timber head to gain access on loaded barge . foot slipped off timber head and bruised right   heel . treated 04/2006 through 08/2006 with prescription , heel support and exercises . 01-29-2007 continued discomfort . sent to orthopedic and received injection .
employee was replacing a damaged track on an asv loader . as he was attempting to pry the track into place with a bar , the bar slipped and caused the employee to strain his abdomen which herniated .
employee was standing on rebar grid and was tying rebar . he was bent over and his right foot slipped off of the rebar that he was standing on . as his right foot ( heal ) slipped off he hyperextended his right knee . he said he felt immediate pain and discomfort but not enough to stop working . later in the afternoon after standing on it he became sore and stiff .
employee was dragging oil cans off of shearer and felt a pain in right shoulder , right chest and neck . continued   to work with repeated trauma to shoulder for 5 months   when exploratory surgery was performed to determine it there was any kind of injury to shoulder . diagnosis is undetermined at this time .
the elevator at patterson creek portal was out of service due to the door bracket failing . the door bracket was repaired and the elevator returned to normal service .
employee claims that a load of overburden dropped into his truck during the normal loading process , jarred him around and created a cramp in his neck .
north 8 , 0 to 1 block , 7 entry , mobile mining unit 004. support : 6 ft 3/4 inch resin bolts , pans , brow straps , screen . 17 ft wide x 70 ft long x 8 ft high . fall dangered off , additional roof support installed around fall and clean up plan posted .
employee was operating a ramcar when he ran over a sliding curtain rail with his back tire and it rolled up into the operator's cab with him and cut his right arm . he had stitches put in lower right arm .
employee was operating the box erector putting a empty box in machine . while doing so the employee felt a sharp pain in lower back region . the doctor put him on restrictions of not lifting over 20 pounds until january 28th , thus constituting as a mine safety and health administration reportable accident .
a roof fall occurred in the return entry located at number 17 cross-cut along the number 2 belt line no injuries from this fall . the fall measured about 18 ft wide 18 ft long and 6 ft high .
while replacing belt and tail pulley on mp02 conveyor . the employee was helping left the tail pulley into place when the tail pulley slipped and caught his hand pushing it against the frame .
the employee was struck on tip on nose by pin wrench ( 24 ' ) . he continued to work and missed the 11th ( family health care assoc ) . `` as requested by mine safety and health administration , the following information is being submitted by brody mining , llc as a result of a part 50 audit for personal point of view '' .
while operating the bolter on the miner , employee was reaching over with his right hand to turn the water off when he felt a pain in his right shoulder . the following day he complained of a pain in his shoulder . he was then taken to the hospital evaluation .
crawling on knees , right knee swelled .
employee fell on ice and snow breaking right wrist .
employee was puling on a ripper motor while in a bent over position .
employee was obtaining metal out of a storage rack when a strong wind blew dust and debris into his area . the employee was treated at the local clinic and returned to work
employee had attached a chain come-along to the a section of grating and was applying upward pressure . he had also placed a 30 '' spud bar into the grating with the intention of applying leverage to the low spot . the weld and clip holding the grating broke loose causing the spud bar to be thrown upward and strike the employee on the nose .
employee was setting a 6 '' beam on a new overcast wall , the beam caught a high spot in the wall causing the beam to roll over striking the employee's right hand and fingers . the employee's right hand ( ring finger ) received a severe cut from the palm to 2nd joint of finger . sutures were required to repair cut .
employee was on the elevator when pulling down safety cage . employee felt a pain in his lower right back halfway into the pull . employee was placed on alternate duty by physician .
employee was clearing up roof fall . he was setting timbers , cut the band off a bundle of timbers . they fell and landed on left foot .
while coming down steps at back of service truck he stepped on a ridge of loose dirt twisting his right ankle . the ridge of dirt was caused by ruts from truck on pad .
details unknown as no report filed by employee . an investigation by mine management . has not determined if a part5 0 code of federal regulations reportable event has occurred . this report is being filed under protest and in response to mine safety and health administration by employee .
while attempting to loosen an adjustment nut on the jaw crusher , employee missed his target with hammer , causing the ankle iron piece to become dislodged and cut his hand .
employee was helping hook up hay trailer when he picked up the trailer , he hurt his back .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered on east mains in the number 4 entry at spad 8465. the fall measured 7 ft high x 18 ft wide x 50 ft long .
the crane operator was moving an outrigger pad and strained a muscle , non reportable at that time . on 5/2/07 , the employee received medical treatment for the stain as it worsened in time .
a nissan titan extended cab traveling north 129th east avenue in tulsa ran a stop sign at a   t   intersection , ramped a set of boulders and berms and fell into an inactive area of the mining pit .
the hoist operator of the jewell shaft double drum hoist was lowering three employees down the jewell shaft when he noticed a spike in the reading on the hoist amp gauge . he immediately stopped the hoist and the hoist was not moved again until personnel went down on the chippy hoist to do a visual inspection of the shaft and the skip the employee's were riding on .
a roof fall occurred adjacent to the last shield on the face causing the entrance to the tailgate to become blocked , preventing egress off the tailgate end of the longwall .
after installing a curtain board for ventilation controls , a piece of draw rock fell between the permanent roof supports roof bolts . striking employee on the shoulder and lower back . he missed work on the 10/10/05 through 10/13/05 .
employee stated he was going to end of the track and some dirt got into his right   eye . eye was cleaned by doctor and eye drops prescribed .
150 ' ft long x 29 ft wide x 3 ft high .
employee and another employee were changing out 8 '' clarkson valve on number 3 header south . as employee was working , he bent down and when he stood up , felt a pain in his right knee . employee will be on restricted duty pending a medical evaluation/diagnostic tests . will see an orthopedist .
employee was performing permissibility on a diesel powered rock duster . employee positioned him self in a pinch point . the ending result was employee received a fractured left wrist . this is a lost time accident
the employee was performing routine task of moving gates in the screen blending chute to change size of product . while using a pry bar to move gate , his hand slipped and bumped his elbow on the steel frame of the screen . impact caused a bruising and swelling to left elbow . he has been placed on `` off duty '' status per doctor follow up on 6/2/06 .
fall occurred on the number 4 belt line at number 16 break . this area was bolted with 4 ' and 6 ' resin belts . fall was approximately   20' x 18 ' long 6 high . fall was cleaned up bolted and screened . cribbs were set on both sides in x cuts to try and prevent a future fall in this area .
employee was raising the gantry when the gantry fell and pulled the employee's arm .
cleaning wheel rust from wheel wind blowing caused rust to blow into eye. piece of rush had to be removed from eye  
employee was dismounting off of a blade and slipped on the bottom step , putting pressure on left arm/shoulder . employee heard and felt a pop in shoulder . employee began to feel pain in shoulder .
the employee was setting and seated in the rear of the diesel powered mantrip going underground to his section . the mantrip bounced causing the employee's head to contact the stationary handrail . the incident resulted in lost time injures .
employee was mopping floor and hit hand on wooden bench
the employee has developed symptoms of carpal tunnel . he underwent surgery on 4/24/00 and 5/10/00 .
roof fall in number 1 entry -- 2100 ' outby 001 working section return -- near company , spad number 29547 -- will not be cleaned up . no airways blocked . 20 ' x 20 ' .
another employee hit victim's finger with a hammer while trying to knock pins out of the teeth of 700 trackhoe .
employee was releasing a 1.5 tone come-along when he felt pin across his lower back .
employee was helping install a punch plate on the screen deck and had his fingers around the plates opening as it was being pushed into place . caught finger on cross rail , ripping open end of finger , which had to be sewn back together at hospital .
employee alleges he strained his back installing belt rollers on number 4 belt note : employee started missing work on 2/1/01 due to this alleged accident
this employee was struck by anfo and an anfo hose when a valve was inadvertently energized .
employee removed section of catwalk to work on section of pipe while moving around employee inadvertently fell into opening
employee was adjusting truck seat and the back of the seat bumped his elbow . employee did not start missing work until 4/15/02 .
employee was roof bolting when his glove caught on drill steel and twisted finger he had a laceration on 2 middle fingers on his left hand . 14 stitches .
employee was cutting a rockdust hose with a utility knife and the knife slipped and cut his other hand . the employee was cutting away from his body but his left hand was holding the hose .
employee slipped and fell on his back . at initial visit to the clinic , all x-rays were negative and the employee was given a full duty release . during a follow up on 11/11/14 , new x-rays showed a fractured left 2nd and 3rd rib . the employee was placed on restrictions .
mine fire - a mine fire was discovered @ the number 1 slope portal @ 05:39pm by guards . the fire dept was dispatched and the fire was extinguished @ 06:04pm . the fire occurred from work being performed during demolition . the established guidelines for reportability is a fire not extinguished within 30 minutes of discovery . we do not consider this fire to be reportable .
the fireboss during his weekly examinations found a roof fall in the number 3 entry of th 2 left section . the fall is in the sump area driven of the number 3 entry . it is approximately   20 ' long , 7 ' to 9 ' high and 20 ' long . the area has been timbered off and will not be cleaned up but will be sealed off .
a roof fall occurred beginning at spad location number   3880 and continuing through spad location number   3875 in the last line of cross-cuts to the face . the fall measured approximately 175 ' long x 20 ' wide x 6 ' high . a continuous mining machine and roof bolting machine are inby the fall area . the were no injuries .
employee bent down to pull miner cable out of the mud and put it on the miner to move it when he felt something give in his back .
employee was assisting coworker with plant maintenance inside primary shaker when the flash from welding being conducted by coworker caused burns to his eyes . given prescription for pain .
employee was operating an end dump in muddy conditions . his end dump got stuck and he needed the assistance of a dozer . as the dozer contacted the rear of the end dump , the impact jarred his back . he had some pain in his lower back , neck and between shoulder blades . he did not see a doctor until 3/3/03 , he received restricted duty at that time .
employee was walking to line number 1 preheater elevator when he walked on side of right foot causing sprain to right ankle .
while loading supplies on the roof bolter , employee twisted to grab another handful of bolts when he felt his knee `` pop '' . he fell down grabbing his knee in pain ; when knee was checked there was no swelling or visible signs of injury .
employee states that he experienced pain in his right shoulder after using an 8 lb sledgehammer to open a valve . on 3/28/07 , employee was removed from work due to work limitations placed by his treating physician . first lost work day was 03/29/07 . surgery is pending .
number 2 heading on the number 012 mobile mining unit . had an unintentional fall from break number 21 to number 22 . 10' high x 18' wide x 60' long . fall was timbered off and section was relocated .
while loading belt structure into hauler , turned to load hauler and hurt lower back . employee worked until 3-13-02 and showed up for work on 3-14-02 and told foreman he had hurt back on 3-5-02 and the   doctor said he would be off for 3-4 weeks . started missing 3-14-02 .
employee was ascending steps in the bunker when he stumbled falling forward . he stuck his hands to catch himself and hyper extended the fingers on his left hand backwards . the injury was diagnosed   after x-rays as a fractured metacarpal of the left hand and was placed in a cast .
employee felt pain/soreness in lumbar area of back at end of shift after driving truck for ten hour shift
employee was putting a scoop on charger . as he did an arc occurred which put 1st and 2nd degree burns on his right hand .
while descending ladder on the cat 990 loader , employee slipped on one foot causing right knee to strike battery box .
employee was calibrating a cememt packing machine . the 2 calibration weight were 25 kg each . and employee was lifting them off together . as he was lifting them off the cradle , he turned to his left to exit the packer when he experienced pain in his lower left back . he paused and then continued to walk around and set the weights down . another worker was watching and noticed employee wincing in pain .
employee was struck by a rock that fell from the mine roof as he was in the process of cleaning gob to set timbers .
employee was handing a troughing roll to coworker . he thought the coworker was ready to accept the roll . he wasn't , so employee grabbed for it and pinched his finger between the roll and frame . cut required stitches .
while shoveling coal on 1/19/2013 felt pain in lower back , then on 1/21/2013 shoveling coal again and pain severely increased
injured employee was holding onto drill steel with up pressure on head . he was attempting to drop head to change bit end . steel broke in 2 pieces . top part remained in roof and other part in drill head . upward pressure abruptly raised to roof injuring thumb .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd west submain , number 4 entry , number 3 cross-cut . the fall was approximately 18 ' long , 18 ' wide and 8 ' thick . the area was bolted with 6 ' and 8 ' point anchor bolts . the fall didn't affect ventilation , travel , cause injury or damage equipment .
ie was helping on the longwall recovery face . employee was unhooking the shield to walking shield hoses . employee was standing between the shield and the crib when a 2'x4 '' x2 '' -4 '' thick rock fell on employee . employee had 1 small laceration on forehead that required stitches and another small laceration on the back of the head . no broken bones were found by the doctor .
employee was stepping off of cement onto black top and fell landing on right knee . this was just a first aid accident until 4-7-10 - became lost workday case accident .
employee was walking across an elevated steel mesh walkway to a control house , when he slipped and fell on the walkway . it was snowing and sleeting at the time . the midrail and handrail prevented the employee from falling to the ground .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the lob intersection of number 5 face and lob left . the lob spad # was 1925 and this was 2 cross-cuts inby the feeder located in the number 4 entry at spad 1909. the area was supported with 4 ' resin bolts , and 6 ' torque tension bolts . the fall measured approximately 20 ' wide x 30 ' long x 6 ' thick . it will not be cleaned up .
a roof fall above anchorage was found by the weekly examiner . this fall was due to normal weathering . the fall was 18 x 60 x 6 and blocked the travelway of the examiner . there were no injuries with this accident . the ventilation was not interrupted and the area has been dangered off at all approaches . this area was mined in november 2014 .
employee slipped and fell when exiting explosives magazine . torn muscle in tail bone area .
the employee was rigging a 6 ' long piece of 6 '' diameter . pvc ( plastic ) pipe with chain hoists , the pipe slipped and fell app . 15 '' - striking the employee's left hand .
employee was setting a stiff jack at 6 headdrive , when a piece of drawrock fell , hitting left hand ring finger . 5 sutures required , employee has returned to regular duty with no restrictions .
employee cut left index finger with a cable winch .
employee was operating a cat 769d haul unit from the pit to the primary crusher . on his 9th trip the employee stopped and told his supervisor that he was experiencing some lower back pain . diagnosis was back strain . employee was found to be operating the truck too fast for the conditions . the haul road was smooth but employee was taking dry water crossing too fast .
employee was riding in an open mantrip when the loop wire that was hanging down came in contact with his lower lip causing a cut , requiring 5 sutures .
on 9/16/03 , employee had climbed down a ladder and stepped to the ground . as he turned to walk , he tripped and fell . this injured his right shoulder . employee sought medical attention and was released for normal duties . after continuing to experience problems with his shoulder further medical evaluation determined that surgery would be required . outpatient surgery - 1/9/04 .
employee states he was wiping sweat from eyes using his shirt . while doing so he thought he scratched his eye . during weekend his eye became irritated and he went to the emergency room . a small piece of rust was removed from his eye .
after loading the loader onto the low-boy trailer , the employee slipped on the tire when covering the exhaust and removing the antenna . he braced his fall from about 5 ft with his right arm straining his right shoulder
employee was hanging cable for drill and hurt lower back .
injured was changing the screens on rotex # 1. the screen is located near the top of the building and it was extremely hot that day . his doctor had recently adjusted his blood pressure and he had been having some trouble with light headiness and dizziness . this may have contributed to the problem .
employee was moving miner cable to move the miner from number 3 entry to the number 6 face . he felt discomfort in his back after doing this task . another employee was helping him . later that day employee walked the primary escapeway route out of the unit to the bottom , as part of escapeway drill . this also aggravated his back . employee continued   to work - 1st day missed : 5/7/04 . removed from duties by doctor .
a roof fall occurred in the 11 seam at cross-cut 208 in entry 5. the roof fall measured approximately 20' long x 18' wide x 3' thick . the roof fall will not be cleaned up . the secondary escapeway was re-established in the adjacent entry . the roof was supported with 4 ' fully grouted roofbolts and date of development was 10/2007 .
employee was cleaning on top of the hopper and slipped .
while bagging material a propout blew off the mast of a forklift and got into left eye .
the employee was using an airlance to clean out a chute when his left hand became pinched between the chute and the airlance .
an unplanned roof fall occurred in the number 130 mine on number 5 belt , number 6 entry , break 29 at spad number 5305 that measured 60 ' long , 10 ' high and 20 ' in width . the area was developed 3/31/06 . no injuries were reported .
roof fall ( 7000-1-023-02 ) : main d unit , cross-cut number 104 , entries 7-8. dimensions : height: 5.5 ' , width: 18 ' , length: 32 ' . geology : soft , medium to dark gray shale , laminations and plant fossils were present . roof support   : 5 ' fully grouted resin bolts .
miner stated that approximately 2 weeks . prior , he had felt a slight pain in his left shoulder when trying to pull an actuator chain to open a flow valve to load-out . on the 16 th of july , the butterfly valve was again stuck , and required a extra hard tug to open , this time causing a possible sprain to the left shoulder muscles . driver this time sought medical treatment .
while attempting to mount a cat 777d , an employee with 2 years of mining experience had the wire rope ladder swing forward towards the vehicle causing the employee to fall downward with right foot still on the rung and landed on employee still extended left leg . as a result the employee suffered a hyperextension of the right knee .
employee was picking up a piece of metal and felt something pull in their lower back
two employee installing fuel tank , accumulated fuel residue was deposited on lower coverall legs . later while installing stinger cover , employee was standing on cover holding it in place when sparks from welder ignited coverall legs . employee received 1st   degree burns on hands and left leg and small 2nd degree burn on right calf .
employee was using 90 lb rock hammer to break up rock in the headgate . the hammer slipped out of the employee's hands striking another employee causing injury to the second employee's hand .
employee was standing on continuous miner in high top , checking top . stepped off miner slipping on a slick rock and fell striking his right wrist on a sharp rock .
employee was loading glue onto roof bolter and twisted to load glue and hurt back .
employee was hand thermalling a stone 2 '' x 24 '' x 36 '' set on edge on the rollers . the stone tipped and fell onto his foot breaking several bones .
a face ignition occurred on the d mains section at 12:05pm . the power was de-energized and all necessary government agencies were notified .
operating d-10 dozer on the fill . he had turned his front lights and fender lights off to dismount machine . while dismounting he missed grabbing the handrail located on the deadlink causing him to fall backward pinning his left lower leg and foot between deadlink and pusharm causing him to fall to the ground . x-rays were negative . on 10-14-05 , injury became lost time accident   possible medial collateral ligament injury .
employee was opening the rear gate of a roll off box on a delivery truck . the employee slipped and fell backwards onto his left wrist , causing a fracture .
this boiler maker helper was helping 3 other coworkers bullganging a muscle ring expansion joint and he placed his right hand/fingers in a pinch point just as the expansion joint slid into pl ace .
employee states he had hand on hydraulic boom and leaned over fork truck to check position of hitch . another employee rolled the forks back , catching employee's left ring finger between the barrel and the eye of the hydraulic cylinder , resulting in a laceration requiring sutures .
employee was killing wasp with spray under table on bed of boom truck . he stepped backwards and turned right at the same time . he stepped into a hole , lost footing and went down on right side .
employee was working on a cushman haulster cart with a flatbed that had flat tires . he was putting tools away and when he lifted the bottle jack up , he twisted at the same time he stood up and he heard a pop in his hip joint and had pain .
while standing or walking about 20 ' from drive over hopper , a haul truck pulling onto hopper drove over a rock shooting it from under tire hitting employee's leg ( right ) breaking it .
at approximately 7:00 am on may 7 , 2006 a dynatec employee noticed a ground fall on the 4835 level of the deep star area of the deep post underground mine . it was located in the b-101 heading . this area began working a couple of days earlier but at this time it was still in an inactive area . after it was secured the roof fall continued out into the active work area .
the employee was tightening a fitting on an air lance . after the fitting was tightened the hose attached to the chicago fitting on the pressurized side of the valve came unattached to the chicago fitting . the hose violently whipped out of control and struck the employee in the leg and face . the pipe clamp ( worm gear clamp ) still attached to the hose , cut his lip and chipped a tooth .
during an idle period the night shift security officer observed a spontaneous com fire in the north field stockpile . no other surface personnel were on site . personnel were called in to extinguish the fire and it took them longer than 30 minutes to get to the mine , requiring an immediate notification and report filing .
employee tripped or stumbled on a piece of angle iron , resulting in a sprain and contusion .
employee was unscrewing a bale , the pipe turned in the clamp , the bale fell on his hand , crushing the hand between the clamp and bale .
employee was fixing shotcrete equipment , pressure released and employee was struck in face and chest by shotcrete . he was seen at the emergency room and diagnosed with chemical burns in both eyes . he was referred to an eye doctor for further treatment . put off work .
employee was using a prybar to lift a mechanism on a rail car door , to close the door . the door was jammed . employee used excessive force instead of getting assistance .
hydraulic pump in the hitachi ex 1800 exploded and filled the engine compartment with hydraulic fluid . when fluid hit the turbo on the engines , fluid went up in a ball of fire . fire destroyed the shovel . operator exited the cab and slipped on the tracks scraping his hand . no medical treatment was given .
a roof fall occurred at spad number 348 to spad number 351 blocking travelway to 2 left panel on at 2 belt . fall measured 100 ' long 20 ' wide x 5 ' high . cribbed off to be cleaned and supported .
employee and another employee responded to a stuck pallet alarm on unit iv cooler . he became trapped when the cooler pallet released on its own causing the dump arm and wheel to swing up and strike him in the head , pinning him between the dump arm wheel and the rail .
employee was rebricking the kiln and slipped while installing a brick . the brick pinched the employee's right middle finger causing it to fracture at the finger tip .
employee was in the process of changing out wheel bearing on a underground supply car . the car was turned over on its top inside of the shop floor . he placed the inner bearing on the spindle and placed the wheel on . then while trying to place the outer bearing inside the wheel , the wheel suddenly slid off the spindle . he pull back quickly and cut his finger on sharp bur
employee was operating forklift with foot hanging on one side of the lift . foot struck a pallet of bags of clay twisting his foot and causing sprain
employee was drilling holes in angle on a drill press to make brackets . he had turned the press off and while removing the angle , the drill bit was still rotating some and there was a shaving stuck to it . this shaving caught his glove and twisted his hand around . he was able to pull his hand free of the glove . the twisting resulted in a broken bone in his hand .
warehouse employee was cutting cardboard , at end of shift , with a box cutter so cardboard would fit into compactor when blade of box cutter contacted employees hand resulting in a cut . employee was taken to up health system bell for medical care . employee received seven stitches . employee was returned to work with no restrictions . gloves were not worn , at time of incident .
while operating the supply motor on the main line track , water dripped from the mine roof striking the employee in the right eye .
a roof fall was found 2 breaks inby spad 24605 between the track and intake entry . the fall measured 80 ' long x 20 ' wide x 7 ' high and occurred due to a rider seam above the immediate roof . roof anchorage in the area was 4 foot resin bolts . no persons were injured as a result however , ventilation was affected . the fall was dangered off and ventilation was rerouted around the fall .
employee was crawling to get back on his scoop when a piece of draw rock fell and hit him on the neck and back .
employee alleges injury from latching truck tailgate . employee tested positive from subsequent drug test . employment terminated . `` report filed under protest ''
employee was walking up the steps of a screen carrying a torch set . stopped to rest and placed his right arm behind a hand rail . when proceeding he did not remove his arm fast enough and pulled a muscle   .
employee jumped off railroad hopper car brake platform and strained his left calf when he landed . ( medication )
fall was discovered 9 main 43 block fall was bolted with 8 ft install two and 16 ft cable bolts in intersections and every 8 ft , 16 ft cc cable bolts with straps the alternate escapeway was blocked and mining was stopped immediately , no people were affected or ventilation
injured employee was assisting with the removal of a transmission from a kenworth t800 tandem truck when his right ring finger was smashed between the drive lines causing a laceration and fracture . he was treated at the emergency room and released to return to work . no sutures required for the laceration .
driver was lifting and releasing tailgate of dump trailer in an attempt to clear dirt and debris so tailgate would close . on the last release of the tailgate the driver's left hand ring finger was caught between the tailgate and the bed of the truck causing a laceration which required stitches .
employee stated while bagging pulverized quicklime he received a lime burn to his wrists plus contact dermatitis . employee continued to work until conditions worsened and was advised light duty   on 6/20/01. he has been re-diagnosed by a specialist as to having allergic reaction to lime .
a coal outburst occurred on the 005 section , 7 left panel in number 3 entry inby number 28 cross-cut . the outburst was triggered by the continuous miner while mining the   b   run to the right .
employee states he opened the door on the truck and stepped out , feeling a sharp stabbing pain in his lower back . employee obtained medical treatment and placed on modified duty 3/14/14 . the employee has not lost time due to this injury .
employee was using a grinder with a wire wheel to chip off paint on a port so he could weld it . one of the wires from the wheel broke loose and went into his right forearm . he didn't notice it for a few days and then began to hurt . he went to the doctor to have it removed .
employee states that after doing a variety of work turning valves , changing screens , etc , that he felt pain in his wrist after work . he was placed on restricted duty
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the 14c section number 3 entry at 3 wall . the fall measured approximately   16' x 16' x 8-10 ' high . no equipment trapped or damaged .
employee stated he was leaning forward with knees bent attempting to break wingnut loose with hammer and as he pulled hammer up , he felt a strain in his right   groin area . he thought nothing of it at the time . he worked on closing and opening 2 suction valves and had to reach up for those . he feels the hernia was due to the combination of the 2 actions . non-occupational case , determined by company doctor .
while preparing to inspect and clean the cement plant dust collector , employee struck his head ( wearing hard hat ) while entering the doorway of the dust collector and jammed his neck . employee did no see a doctor until 2/23/04 and on 2/26/04 he received osteopathic manipulative treatment .
employee was removing a barrel from a pump , and had a chain fall attached to it . the barrel broke free and pulled the employee's right hand into the intake pipe coming from the flash discharge tank . the right thumb was severed at the distal knuckle .
employee was awarded 5 % ppd benefits for occupational pneumoconiosis .
employee stated he was driving the slinger duster down a travelway , when he thinks he hit a hole and caused him to be bounced up and hit his head on the canopy . he felt in his neck and head . employee had prior neck surgery and the mri showed degenerative stenosis and cervical spondylosis . employee was taken off work on 02/20/2009 .
the ramcar was being moved out of the cross-cut , making a left turn . employee started to walk by and was caught . employee was on one side of the curtain and the ramcar operator was on the other side .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 6 entry 1 break inby spad number 247 2,700 ft from the active face . the fall measured approximately 20 ft long x 20 ft wide x 0-5 ft high. all entrances have been breakered off around the fall . this area will not be rehabilitated .
while performing a shaft inspections , the crew found the number 3 hoist rope slapping the guide ropes . after further investigation , the groove in the hoist drum for number 3 rope showed excessive wear . the   other 3 grooves were cut to eliminate the problem .
while roofbolting , a piece of roof rock hung up on the drill steel and as the steel continued to rotate , the rock broke off striking the injured on the left shoulder and head . this resulted in contusions to the head and shoulder .
while moving ventilation tubing the employee cut a piece of wire holding the tubes together . when the tube came down it swung and hit employee in the front part of employee's body hitting employee in head and right shoulder . then on the 5-5-16 employee reported to the safety dept . that employee had neck pain and was referred to the emery medical   clinic where employee was given a prescription for physical therapy .
a haul truck driver was beginning an uphill climb in third gear . the excessive speed caused his cat 785 seat to bottom out after cresting a hump . this resulted in a lower back strain to the driver .
walking from tail piece to feeder stepped over feeder timber support leftt foot slipped off belt bed rail twisting ankle severely to one side . cause of injury slipping on material in travel way . compliance with rules/regulations was a factor , mining equipment/system not a factor , miner proficiency maybe a factor , personal protective equipment was not a factor .
a roof fall occurred in number 1 entry , number 18 cross-cut of 2a panel spad # 3016. length 17' x width 17' x 10 ' . the roof was bolted with 6' point anchor cable bolts .
employee was releasing stored energy off a hydraulic   cylinder and it appeared to have been released . he started removing the fitting , loosening it with a wrench and then with his hand . there was stored energy on the cylinder and it blew out striking the employee on his left hand between thumb and index finger . the grease blew a hole through his glove and made a laceration , injecting grease under the skin .
lumbar strain , repeated motion of spud bar
while working on an engine placed on concrete shop floor , employee knelt on both knees . employee felt some pain in his knee when he first knelt down but it wasn't until later that he noticed bruising ands swelling .
during an inspection of hoist by surface shop , they tripped a slack rope switch to test it and it would not reset . mine safety and health administration was called at 4 pm and electricians checked the switch , repairs were made and mine safety and health administration was called back at 4:40 pm on same day and told hoist was back in service .
employee was assisting a service rep to install a new wear liner inside a secondary screen . as employee was lying on his stomach on the screen deck he was helping to push the liner approximately 2 ' into position . employee reported on 4/8/02 he had strained his left side groin . he was diagnosed on 4/8/02 with 3 hernias . employee began losing time on 4/10/02 .
roof fall found on weekly exam by mine safety and health administration and mine foreman 3nw mains , number 4 entry between spads 4679 and 4698 . 16 ' wide x 40' long x 6 ' high . 6 ' tension bolts rebar belts .
working on grizzly plant , changing a skirt on conveyer knelt   in a crouch position , employee pulled on the air hose and twisted his back .
there was two other miners on-site and neither of them saw what happened . they found employee lying down next to the water truck and the rock crusher water tank . he was bleeding from the back of his head .
while stacking 50 lb bags onto a pallet one of the bags of filter aid onto the pallet one of the bags fell off . worker tried to catch the bag and strained his back .
employee was standing on top of guard on crusher using a shovel to unclog a feed chute . material in chute gave way , employee's foot slipped , and employee fell hitting angle iron against rib cage .
employee was turning the ring gear on a very large differential checking the lash . as he turned the gear his right index finger was pinched between the screw heads holding the gear and the differential   housing . employee had an open avulsion requiring sutures and fractured finger tip . is a mechanic and can not use his right   hand and will be off work until cleared to use hand .
the employee was descending the ladder from the operators station , using 3 points of contact . the last few steps are wire rope constructed and the wire rope failed . the employee caught himself with his hand , thus pulling at his elbow and shoulder in supporting his weight , until he was able to stabilize himself .
employee was assigned to work with the mechanics to remove the trommel rock box in order to remove and replace the conical rock deflector . employee was cutting the welds and was using a pry bar to remove the structure . using a 5 ft bar and prying up and the bar slipped and hit himself in the jar . the skin was not broken or bruised .
employee was putting 4 '' water line across belt layed water line on top of railing and went to push it across , pulled something loose in left shoulder .
employee was climbing into pipe truck and his hand slipped off of handle resulting in a strained wrist . we question the validity of this accident since there were no witnesses , but doctor prescribed light duty .
while cleaning the tip of the burner barrel pipe and the front of the kiln and firing hood with a 15 ' long stainless steel air pipe with a 45 bend in the end of it . also a t handle set up upon turning on the valve the air pressure casqued the pipe to suddenly twist in a counter clock rotation and i was hit in the jaw . the blow broke some teeth loose and sheared them off at gum line .
employee was lifting two people to the roof in a boom truck . as he was doing this , he felt something in his left eye ; he was wearing his safety glasses .
employee and coworker were carrying air conditioner up stairs . employee was walking backwards up stairs . they stopped and coworker let water drain out of air conditioner . this put a strain on employee's back . he did not request to see company doctor until 03-15-2000. this reportable as he was put on a weight lifting restriction of 20 lb for two weeks .
employee complained of shoulder pain while operating a caterpillar 980g loader . the doctor reported that employee has an upper back strain . he is work restricted duty .
employee and coworker were installing a catwalk structure approximately 8 ' above ground level . injured employee was climbing down to the ground level to obtain another come-along when he lost his grip on the iron   , then lost his footing , then fell forward striking his knee on a piece of channel iron . employee's fall protection lanyards were secured to 2 separate anchorage points above him .
employee was instructed to do pm service on 1178 992d cat loader . upon inspecting work area he noticed a large amount of material ( mud ) on right rear counterweight area which contains batteries and access to engine compartment . he drove loader to rear of oil house and started shoveling material from counterweight . his foot slipped off rear edge and he fell approximately 5 ft to ground below .
dropped stone ( while trying to move it ) and hand was caught between two stones .
employee was packing a pump housing , stepped into a hole and twisted his back .
employee was advancing longwall support when a rock fell from between the support he was standing on and the support being moved . the rock bounced off the panline handrail and struck employee on the lower right leg and foot .
while the injured employee was using a grinder a piece metal came in behind his safety glasses and shield .
employee was moving a 55 gallon drum of oil from a pallet on a forklift into the oil shed . drum tipped slightly and employee reacted to prevent drum from tipping over . this action caused him to scrape his right arm against the door frame , resulting in a laceration about 2.5 '' long .
a fall of roof was discovered by the mine examiner at main east number 4 entry approximately 36+00 . 200 ft in length , 18 ' width , 18 ' height . supported by 6 ' conventional bolts , 6x6 timbers and heizmann jacks .
the employee was helping the mechanic from jw burress to replace a pottery head motor on a drilltec   drill . employee was lifting the motor from the rotary platform to the service truck . the motor was about 38 '' above ground level when employee picked the motor up he turn about 180 degree and sat the motor down .
employee was bolting top and while pushing the bolt up into the hole , a piece of rock measuring approximately   4 '' x 6 '' fell and struck the employee on the hand .
employee states his right finger was smashed when the drill box he was installing slipped and smashed his finger against the drill boom . injury required 12 stitches .
employees were investigating methods to refeed emergency power to motor control center during power outages . the employee noticed a jumper wire hanging from the bottom lip of the bucket . while using a voltage sensing probe , an arc flash occurred causing a burn to right hand of employee .
employee was clearing material from conveyor when he felt pain in his shoulder .
employee was scaling in the bench area when a large rock hit the boom of the scaler resulting in his back being sprained .
two employees were in the process of setting the tension . the other was holding tension on spring with spanner wrench . employee was preparing to put a locking pin which holds spring in place , began to place the pin ; wrench broke allowing the spring to release tension . bolt cut through his glove causing a laceration on right hand in the fleshy area below the thumb . 8 sutures .
roof fall a - f entries at 19+86 . 18 ' wide , 20 ' long * 7 ' high in 5 intersections in the 3 south non-working section .
while stepping off of truck onto a platform to check out sparks coming from a conveyor , employee slipped and fell 8 feet and hit both knees .
an unintentional roof fall was found at approximateley 6:48 pm . the fall measured 5' high x 30' wide x 25' long . the fall was dangered off , roof fall cleaning procedures were reviewed and posted at the fall and proceeded with the clean-up . the fall was in the number 6 entry , inby spad station number 3756 , mains section .
while in the process of picking up and moving 2-12 ' steel booms , employee caught his right index finger between the 2 booms . the resultant injury was an amputation to the tip of his finger . employee failed drug test .
the injured employee was walking from entry number 4 to entry number 6 to unlock a piece of equipment . when crossing entry number 5 , inby the feeder tailshaft , the corner of the inby rib fell out striking the employee in the face . the coal rib measuring 2' x 2' x 2 ' pushed the employee to the ground . he had surgery on 9/10/2010 for a deviated septum , which took him off work .
the 600 amp ac breaker for the garden   b   shaft automatic elevator had a fault , which rendered the elevator inoperative in excess of 30 minutes .
employee stated his knee popped while performing maintenance on 3-2-01. did not report incident until 3-5-01 at which time saw doctor released for light duty until 3-9-01. determined 3-12-01 not to work   per doctor's orders . mri completed 3-13-01. no results yet .
an unintentional roof fall occurred on 4 north mains break 34 , in the number 2 left cross-cut approximately 20 ' north of ss 16267. the fall occurred in the area of the old 3 left panel at the number 4 seal . this fall was discovered by the weekly examiner at approximately 2:30 pm
a water line leak was being investigated in our old mine 2 west mains . when the leak was found it was due to a roof fall at cross-cut 81 in the old beltine .
had a hose bust on shield , allowing emulsion to spray on employee's face and in eyes . employee went to doctor where he was prescribed eye drops for eyes .
employee hurt his knee when he twisted it stepping up out of mantrip .
panel that mechanic was removing was over the wiper motor on a cat 992 loader . it was stuck . pulled harder and when it came loose he reach back to catch himself and pulled muscle in right shoulder   .
employee was climbing a vehicle ladder with backguard to grease plant equipment when he slipped and fell to the ground causing possible back injury . employee was not carrying anything at the time
two survey crew employees were using a jlg manlift during a center line control stake out . the jlg fell over the high wall from the upper floor to the next lower floor at a location where the face was not sloped and the crew did not know the top of the high wall was not barricaded . no warning signs were posted .
a roof fall occurred in the 2nd main north entries at number 12 cross-cut , number 1 to number 2 entry . the fall measured 20 feet long , 17 feet wide and 8 feet thick .
employee , a crusher operator , was cleaning up at the end of the shift . he went into a restricted area below the feed chain while in operation to clean the walkway of debris . with his back to the feed chain , a gypsum rock came over the edge and struck him . the rock caused employee to strike his chin on the end of the chipping bar he was using to clean . suffered a cut on the chin .
while working on a head drive , employee stepped on a slick rock and fell under the drive , striking his back .
employee states that he was coming out of pit on a moderate incline loaded with rock on his first load of the day . the euclid stalled and he applied the emergency brake . it held on for awhile then started   rolling backwards and run up on a side enbankment and eased over on its passenger side. seat belt were unavailable but some unexplained reason the employee was not using it .
employee was manually rotating the turbulator pins on the turbulator , when his left ring finger got pinched between the pin and the turbulator casing . the pinch peeled the skin back on his finger , which required 9 stitches . employee had properly locked equipment out and was wearing gloves .
001 section - number 1 entry - spad no 6600. size of fall - 16 ' x 16 ' x 48 '' . number of cribs or timbers installed prior to fall - 02. type - resin - 48 '' . type of strata - shale mix , laminated , wet .
employee was in the elevator coming to the surface when the elevator stopped approximately   5 ' from the top . the employee was safely removed from the elevator at 4:35 am by schindler elevator service . the problem was a bad contactor .
employee was sweeping floor when he felt something in his left eye . with other employee assistance , employee flushed his eye with wash bottle then an eyewash . he reported continued discomfort the following day . he was checked by an ophthamologist and a preventive antibiotic prescribed for mild corneal abrasion was given .
was on man lift . when descending , the basket caught a pipe and then jolted employee against side , injuring his right shoulder and upper arm .
employee was setting timbers pulled down , a rock hit his leg , knee and foot . abrasion to skin .
received a coal workers' pneumoconiosis diagnosis on 2/7/2014 . employee last worked on 11/19/2010 and is no longer employed with the company . accident date of 11/19/2010 is to accommodate online reporting per mine safety and health administration ( denver ) instructions .
worker was lifting a block of stone , the flagstone slipped and smashed his left third digit .
employee was helping a repairman repair on a ramcar . he was using a track jack and as he was raising the ramcar stinger up , the jack slipped out and the handle of the jack pinned the victim's hand against the roof .
while training the belt at longwall tailpiece , individual loosened the bolts to the belt roller bracket . individual bent down to watch belt , placed hand on belt structure rail . the top belt roller bracket moved on the rail , pinching right middle finger tip between top roller bracket and bottom belt hanger bracket lacerating finger tip requiring stitches .
an unintentional roof fall was discovered by the weekly examiner . the fall occurred in a mains , number   3 entry at spad 334. the fall measured 20 ft wide , 12 ft long and 8-10 ft high .
the employee was stacking 50 lb bags of sand when the accident occurred . as the employee grabbed a bag and started to pivot his heel , he felt a dull pain in his lower back area . the employee sought medical assistance from a local chiropractor . after seeing chiropractor , employee placed on 15 lb weight restriction for 3 days . employee returned   to work 5/23/07 .
employee was laying on his back changing screens . about an hour later he was walking across the yard and felt severe pain in his lower back .
employee was using handheld electric grinder inside duct work at the glass baghouse and was grinding the surface of the damper housing when the grinder slipped out of his sweaty hands and cut his right index finger . laceration of knuckle required 2 sutures .
the slope car serving the number 1 portal was taken out of service when the ethernet cable used to transmit communications malfunctioned . the car was unavailable for use for two hours , from 3:15am until 5:15am .
employee stepped off rail car into hole or rut . twisted ankle .
stepping off car to tell other car driver about miner when a piece of rock fell and struck rightwrist .
employee was lubing the 980g loader , unrolled hose from lube truck , climbed up ladder on side of loader caring lube hose . lube hose reel retracted for no reason pulling employee to ground from top of ladder on side of 980g loader .
employee was involved in an exchange of words with another employee . the other employee poked injured repeatedly in the chest with his fingers . at the end of the shift he filled out a minor injury report . on 10/30/06 he was checked by a physician and placed on restricted duty for chest inflammation making this accident reportable .
supervisor had just finished building a crib along the belt in 3 west longwall when a piece of rock fell from the roof knocking off his hardhat and a second piece fell striking him on the head .
climbing ladder up to winch house , struck left knee on next step up .
employee was going up flight of steps to waste plant too fast , not paying attention or using handrails . he tripped in between steps and landed on his face .
walking across the shop to get into haul truck felt pain in lower back . he has degenerative disc in lower back this reaggravated an old injury .
unloading bales of peat moss from back of 18 wheel delivery truck when a bale of peat fell off of palet knocking employee to ground fracturing right   arm .
employee arrived at work and told his employees he was up all night with stomach pain . he continued to experience stomach pain and nausea . during a meeting he left the room and collapsed in the hall . cpr and automated external difibrillator was performed until ambulance arrived . employee died on the way to the hospital .
employee was hanging cable when a rock fell from the roof , hitting employee in the head and back .
man was working in the crane man basket changing mill liner bolts on finish mill 3 , 30 ' high above the mill room floor . went to move toward the mill when the crane kept moving and would not stop . tried to stop crane but hand pinched between mill shell and crane basket .
employee was checking to see that the cement load out spout was properly lowered into the rail car located at the combination scale . while on the north side of the rail car and looking up at the spout , employee backed up and tripped over a wheelbarrow and fell to the ground injuring his left knee .
employee injured his right hand in the fairlead of the cable reel truck . there was tension on the cable   coming off the fairlead wheel . the employee was transported by ambulance . he returned to work the next day . weeks later after the injury he had experienced some tenderness and lost some movement in the finger and started part-time for the injury .
discovered a roof fall in the rooms on the return side , 3 breaks to the left of spad # 2827. the fall was 5 ' thick x 18 ' wide x 50 ' long . this area has been dangered off . the fall is 5 breaks from the active section .
employee was removing lower air chamber section of 10 ' air slide with another employee onto a forklift . employee's thumb was caught between the fork and air slide when it was unexpectedly moved by other employee . employee had nail removed and sewn back on as a precaution . employee working with restrictions .
the elevator number 8 was taken out of service @ 10:45 am for ansi 17 testing ( 5 year test ) . no employee's were on the elevator at the time and all escapeways were rerouted . the elevator was placed back into service @ 8:20 pm all necessary government agencies were notified according to law .
employee was installing roof bolts in are 512 west . while moving the roof bolter from one bolt location to another , the bolter swung to the left and the stabilizer bar struck the inside area of his right foot ankle .
employee was checking off spec door on number 4 grizzly on the number 4 kiln . the door was stuck in the open position and the employee pulled on the door to get it back on the hinges . he felt a pull in his lower back . conditions and work conditions were normal , no slip , trip or fall hazards and poor housekeeping was not noted .
working on shaker , wrench slipped flew up and hit employee in the left cheek .
employee was towing impact crusher down ramp when tracks began to loose grip on frozen grade . dozer slid to side and jackknifed the dolley because of momentum of crusher . after getting dozer stop ped operator got nervous and bailed off machine in a hurry and lost his balance , falling to the ground , landing on both hands to catch his fall . left wrist broken , right wrist sprained .
employee stated in the course of his normal duties that he felt pain in his lower back . the employee had bent over to pick up a piece of rubber belt mat when the pain became worse . the employee has a history of back injuries .
employee was granted an award from west virginia workers compensation division for occupational disease ( hearing loss ) .
when the employee was cranking on a jack stand to raise a trailer to line up with a truck hitch , the bolts that hold the jack to the trailer gave way . the employee's foot was positioned under the frame of the trailer , when the trailer fell . it struck the employee's right foot , injuring him . the employee did have steel toed shoes on .
an unintentional roof fall occurred at the new future mine at the 5n headgate number 2 entry at station 4496n . the fall was approximately 34 feet long , approximately 18 feet wide and approximately 12-15 feet thick . the fall did not affect ventilation or passage of men . the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was in bent position lifting miner cable when he felt pain in his lower back . he continued   to work until 6/17/02 when the pain began to radiate into his groin area . he was taken off work until 6/28/02
employee stepped on a 4 '' water line and fell . employee did not go to the doctor until 1/17/10 . he began missing work on 1/18/10
employee was attempting to put a 36 '' wooden crib block on top of the battery scoop , as he threw the crib block , he smashed his little finger on his left hand between the crib block and the light housing on the scoop .
a piece of rock slid off the atrs and struck employee in the face .
a roof fall occurred at the 5200 level cross-cut number 4 , a 5 ft . x 6 ft . x 4 ft . wedge came down from the back at the number 4 cross-cut nose pillar . approximately eight ( 8 ) ft split set rock bolts failed from the anchorage zone . the fall did not impede ventilation , travelways and / or entrapment . no injuries were sustained . mine safety and health administration
while performing repairs employee fell against handrail   .
employee was hit in mouth by a come-along handle that he was standing near , which shifted causing employee to cut his lip and chip his front teeth .
employee drove truck into a overpass with bed fully raised at approximately 20-30 mph . he broke windshield , shifter column and steering wheel while bouncing around in cab . he received 6-8 inch laceration to   his head , and possible bumps and bruises .
employee was pulling a rock off a continuous miner when the rock slid and mashed his left index finger . this resulted in a fracture and a laceration in which he received stitches .
employee was installing deck grating and bolting handrail . employee was wearing his fall protection equipment but had taken it upon himself to disconnect while installing bolts . grating was not yet secured   and slid out from under him causing him to fall to next level . fall broke both wrist and caused small laceration to right calf . no other injuries .
unintentional roof fall 9th west 6th north panel number 10 and number 11 entry cross-cut between 10 and 11 and part of number 11 intersection - 30' long x 20 ' x 6'-8 ' 4 way intersection . not active working no person re quired to walk this entry .
injured's left little finger was surgically amputated following an accident where the finger was pulled after being caught in a elevator door strap . injured had reached over a safety gate to grab   the strap while the elevator was moving .
employee was moving large rock off longwall shield base pontoon . shield was being used as walker shield during longwall teardown . as employee was moving rock , another rock slid down the base lift jack and caught   his middle finger between the two rocks , causing injury .
during an altercation with another employee , injured employee was struck in nose . both sent home until incident investigated . injured employee did not seek medical attention for 11/2 weeks . safety dept was notified employee had missed 1 day to see doctor and 1 day for x-rays . all negative .
removing hydraulic pump , strained shoulder ( left ) while moving pump .
coworker was pushing the coal feeder to move it while injured was tramming from the controls . the bucket of the coal scoop slipped upwards pushing a lid loose and on the right thumb of injured   breaking the first joint on his left thumb .
tripped on rock while going to belt line to help move belt . a rock gave way and twisted leg , injuring left knee .
employee was driving a truck in the plant area . the truck hit a hole in the road , and employee reported that his head bounced from side to side , making his neck pop .
employee received a cut to the left wrist as he lifted an evaporator heat exchanger plate . he was taken to the emergency room and received nine stitches .
using pry bar to align guard on drag pinion pushed on bar , felt pain in his neck .
employee was traveling on a rail mounted personnel carrier when the carrier came in contact with another rail mounted carrier on the main line track unexpectedly .
the employee was driving an empty haul truck down to the 4100 level . the employee noticed flames @ the control panel . the employee stopped the truck , this caused flames to enter the cab . the employee attempted to initiate   the fire suppression in the cab and couldn't because of flames . the employee exited the cab to initiate the fire suppression on the right side of the truck and couldn't reach it . she ran 1000 ' to the
employee was using arc gauge hook up to welder cutting off rebar and all thread from form reinforcement . he went to throw away the used rod and part of it dropped off into his boot and burned his leg before he could get his boot off .
employee was picking colored rock from a moving belt and putting the rejected stone into a 5 gal pail . employee reached and lifted the bucket and felt pain in his right lower back .
employee was working at the metcalf mill south repair bay using shovel to push water to flex off of vacuum truck when employee put right foot in the flex , the employee panicked and sat down and the vacuum hose went up to employee's right calf and employee did have vacuum break as directed on inspection sheet . employee was taken to the urgent care and released home .
a steel got wedged between the long arm of boom and steel tray , it came loose striking employee on right side of safety glass and head .
employee was getting out of his truck when he twisted his left knee .
replacing turnbuckle and channel on conveyor , he removed bent steel attached to motor conduit and gear box . assembly rotated striking the back of his neck . he requested medical attention 10/14 .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in the number 2 entry 60 feet outby spad number 717. the fall was approximately   16 feet wide x 18 feet long x 70 inches thick . no persons , equipment nor ventilation was affected . the fall has been inspected by mine safety and health administration and roof trusses are being installed as roof support .
employee was using a pick hammer to remove a bolt for the cable stand off on the continuous miner when he struck his left hand with the pick hammer . on october 3 , 2012 management learned that the employee sought medical treatment and received sutures .
while adding oil ( automatic transmission fluid ) to a compressor that was still pressurized , injured and another employee were both sprayed with oil from the unit . some oil went into injured's eye . doctor   prescribed ciloxan opthalmic solution .
employee complained of dizziness as he tried to get off of excavator and lost his balance . employee fell 4 to 5 feet to the ground cutting open his arm and hitting his head and shoulder . employee was planning on fueling up excavator at time of accident .
employee slipped at entrance to mill , fell and sprained back . began losing time 5/3/01 .
employee was installing a roof bolt by operating a walk-through bolter . as employee was pushing the bolt into the drilled hole , employee felt pain in left shoulder . employee was placed on restrictions on 1-9-18 that restricted from performing normal occupation . employee began missing time on 1-9-18 .
employee was at the south end of pit to help move a water pump . he was walking near the rear of pump when he slipped and fell on his right   arm , conditions were wet and muddy .
employee using handheld power tool with wire brush wheel . he was cleaning old metal parts . employee wearing   safety glasses and face-shield felt something in his eye while driving home after shift .
a fully trained miner injured right   pinky finger when loading a ranging arm onto the longwall face a piece of rock fell from between the roof support striking miner's finger . the injury was not the result of any compliance issues nor were any protective guards involved .
was cutting the lid off of a plastic container when the knife slipped and cut his left arm near the arterial vein .
employee was working on the cooler . as he exited the cooler he had his foot braced on a pipe . his foot slipped and he fell .
employee was fixing hand rail on haulpak when he felt pain and a popping sensation in left calf
current test indicates that hearing levels have deteriorated from the most recent baseline/reference test , as per occupational safety and health criteria for standard threshold shift in right ear .
degenerative disc with narrowing associated with mild/moderate protrusion .
employee stepped into a depression hyperextending his knee . he was referred to a specialist and on 7/23/2015 was diagnosed with a torn meniscus .
employee was moving a rock with crane . the rock shifted in the strap and the employee lost control due to momentum . his right leg was pinned between the rock and the wall of the building immediate swelling and bruising upon doctor visit , he was diagnosed with torn tendons in his right shin/calf .
while bolting at the faces of unit 3 he smashed his left ring finger between a drill stell and the tightening wrench .
roof fall occurred 7/2/12 at section 003 at spad number 11550 . 1000 ' feet from active face . no personal injuries , no equipment involved . no ventilation or passageways affected . 220' long   x 18 ' wide x 8-10 ' high. entrances have been breakered off. mining under 300 ' cover .
employee was servicing continuous miner when he was struck by a falling rock measuring 7' long x 31 '' wide x 0-6 '' thick . the rock fell from between 2 permanent supports and struck the employee on the right   foot . employee suffered an open fracture to the top of foot .
employee was climbing a ladder to check the johnson screen and hit his head on a vent pipe above the ladder jamming his neck and chest area . employee was placed on restricted duty .
employee was going up the ladder to get into the rock truck , his foot slipped off of the first step and he fell to the ground .
the employee was changing batteries on a unihauler and was hanging his jumper cables when he stepped on a crib block causing him to twist his knee . employee did not miss work until 1-24-2000 .
while hauling fill ; injured worker hit rock on haul road causing pan to jolt .
cap coal struck employee on right ankle .
employee bent down to pick up a pallet . his back hurt and as he stood up , he felt a sharp pain . sent him to the chiropractor .
employee was pushing fill with a d11 dozer , he called for the foreman to come get him . employee stated that he could not stand the bumping of the dozer . he stated that the pain was from a previous injury from a previous employer . employee wouldn't go to the doctor , but he did go home .
lifting 20 ft extension ladder , ladder flipped over and employee twisted his wrist .
employee was changing reel chain on shuttle car , when a piece of the coal rib fell and struck the employee in the upper back and neck area employee was complaining with back pain he was transported to st. joseph martin hospital he received cat scan which was negative and was transported to pikeville medical center and received more cat scans also negative , was released same date .
employee was driving a haul truck , hauling dirt . he backed up to dumps the load . he raised the bed and pulled forward as the dirt yeard the bid , he stopped . the front the truck came down with force , jarring jim in his seat he reach a compression fracture to his back .
a roof fall has occurred in the 2e panel at 10+40 in number 5 entry . the fall measures approximateley 30' x 20' x 7 ' . the roof had been supported by 5 ' fully grouted roof bolts and was caused by an undetected slip in the mine roof .
employee was pushing scaffolding on wheels when a plant fell off hitting him on head .
on 1-2-03 injured was moving some scaffolding int he bucket shed and some dirt fell into his right eye . he was wearing safety glasses as required . he was transported to doctor eye clinic . the eye was   flushed and he was given an ophthalmic prescription .
driving volvo to the dump , hit hole , jammed back .
employee was shoveling on number 2 belt . claimed shovel hit on a splice causing the shovel to jerk back - aggravating an old injury where a plate had been installed in his shoulder approximately one year ago .
employee was assisting the left side cm operator with his cable and water line when the edge of a rock rib measuring approximately 7' x 8 ' x 2 1/2 ' fell striking his right foot . employee was transported to logan regional   medical center where x-rays revealed fractures to the three middle toes . recovery time unknown .
employee was in process of breaking coal in pit area with a 988 b cat front end loader , front end loader bucket caught ground and stopped abruptly , causing employee to bump into front end loader steering wheel .
employee was trying to free the crow's foot hung on a hog panel when the crow's foot rolled over and pinned employee's   right arm .
employee stated that he was attempting to hang a continuous miner cable on the company number   002 sec . while pushing against the cable to secure it against the rib , his knee gave way and the kneecap was out of place . employee stated that he set the kneecap back into place .
while setting the atrs on the roof bolting machine , a piece of rock came down and struck employee's left foreman .
a roof fall occurred measuring 20 ' x 25 ' x 8-10 ' thick near ss number 2454 , 4 left off 2 east submain . no equipment involved . the ventilation was not disturbed . there were no injuries and the fall will not be cleaned up .
employee was checking the fluid levels on the engine of a mack coal truck when he slipped and fell , hurting the left side of his body . ( hip , leg and side )
injured employee was in the process of cleaning the shop . while picking up a grease bucket lid , employee received a laceration to his right hand . the laceration required 3 sutures to close .
employee was on a forklift getting a roll of poly bags down to take to the packaging line . prior to doing this the teammate must take the plastic wrap and cardboard off of roll and lay to the side . when employee came back to clean up the trash , got off the lift and squatted to pick up the plastic and felt a pop or something pull in lower back .
the employee was walking on a drill pattern and stated that he stepped backward and felt a pain in his right upper leg .
employee and other were below employee on the working ledge preparing to remove a piece of grout . employee was signaling to another employee , the flagman . employee had just finished drilling a punch hole in a small piece of grout . the bit hung up , and he went to get a sledge hammer , but tripped on an airline , lost his balance , and fell approximately   8 ft head first onto flat granite surface .
the employee was helping to make a splice in the conveyor belt . he reached down to move the nailer and was hit in the finger with a 2 lb . sledge hammer .
employee alleges he strained his groin and back while pulling cable from a roof bolt machine . note : employee continued to work until 1/26/01 and at that time began missing work due to worsening of his condition
employee was putting antifreeze into linkbelt 4300 while the unit was running and the air pressure from the fan blew the liquid toward his face and into his eyes .
employee was loading the roofbolter when rock fell from between the bolts , striking him on the back . lost time injury .
employee filed an alleged occupational pneumoconiosis claim on 6/5/10 , claim no . 2010011953. receive notice that a 10 % award had been granted on 3/11/11 . this award will be protested since he was granted no award on claim number   2004004037 filed on 7/25/03 .
contractor was plastering a stopping and the plaster splashed behind his safety glasses and into his eye . he flushed his eye and continued working but later his eye became irritated . he later went to the hospital . the hospital flushed his eye and prescribed maxitrol antibiotic drops .
an unintentional roof fall occurred in 8 miner mains in number 6 entry , in an intersection near spad 10547. the fall measured 25 ft wide x 25 ft long and 6 ft high .
was lifting a 2 x 10 and tripped on rebar and body went forward and arm stayed .
the elevator at cook's branch became inoperative for more than 30 minutes while the daily examination was being conducted . employee was performing the exam when the elevator stopped . the employee was released at 10:45 am from the elevator and repairs were made to restore the elevator to working condition .
employee left work on 02/02/2016 without reporting an accident . employee reported to the hospital the following afternoon and was treated and released for a back sprain . doctor excuse said to return to work the following day 02/04/2016 . employee has not yet returned to work . employee did call on 02/15/2016 and said employee would return next day . has not returned to work as of 02/21/2016 .
employee strained his shoulder carrying a shovel tooth . he continued to do his normal job . an mri by the doctor showed a torn rotator cuff . he still continued doing his normal job until 4-7-03 when he developed   shoulder pain and could not run equipment . he was assigned light duty .
employee was bent down nailing a spad to hold down a curtain , when a rock fell from the roof and struck him , knocking him to the ground .
while moving cabinets , lost balance and twisted knee . note : all treatment was first aid until 5/20/04 - now is physical therapy . 7/26/04 : lost time occurred when employee had surgery 7/7/04 for torn ligaments . injured first experienced pain 5/3/04 .
employee was operating a continuous miner at the face area . a loop of trailing cable flipped over and struck him on the side of the knee , bending it to the outside .
employee was on a screen catwalk , shoveling spilled material off the catwalk from a kneeling position . employee set employee's left hand on the material pile to re position self . another miner , who was helping loosen the material pile with a 6 ' digging bar , struck employee in the hand with the digging bar .
employee was bent over starting a pump when an left-hand drive entered the area . the operator did not see the injured employee and struck him with the mucker bucket . the employee did not suffer any mine safety and health administration reportable injuries but was placed on restricted duty .
employee reported he was striking hardened tooth of 992d front end loader sprocket with steel hammer to loosen when piece of steel split off and penetrated his left forearm .
employee was walking to the mantrip when he slipped in mud and fell . he felt a pull in his groin , came to work 11/02 but pain became worse and he left after two hours .
employee was walking to mantrip and stepped on a rock , twisting his right ankle .
breaker tripped . found and fixed in programmable logic controller .
employee was operating a d-11 dozer . dozer slipped off a rock and he jarred his back .
employee was using a 5 foot long pry bar trying to bend a skirt board on a conveyor # cc2 when the pry bar slipped off and his thumb was smashed between the handrail and the bar . thought only bruised , but continued to be painful , saw doctor he said it was broken .
employee was using welding rod to weld machine and hot weld rod went into boot . this was initially classified as doctor first aid 1/20/04 . effective 2/11/04 it became reportable/doctor treatable due   to required follow up treatments preventing infection .
a roof fall was discovered in number   1 entry ( return ) 3-way intersection at survey station no . 4486. the fall is approximately 50 ft long x 14 ft wide and contained 6'5/8 '' bolts and timbers . the approaches were   dangered off and the return airway was rerouted with construction of 5 stoppings . this area on d-6 panel was developed 3/2000 .
employee stated , he was checking vibration on troughing roller and a key stock welded on the roller for a speed switch caught his left hand cutting his middle finger ( employee was wearing gloves ) .
as he was removing the left hoist cylinder from the front-end loader , he had the bucket up sitting on top of a hopper . he started to remove oil line underneath the machine when suddenly the bucket   fell . the loader rolled back and as he tried to get out from underneath he tried to get out from underneath he twisted his arm and hurt his left hand .
while changing a shock absorber on a conveyor head pulley scraper , employee smashed his right ring finger when his wrench slipped .
employee stated while walking up number 5 entry towards the face area , he stopped to get some spad nails off of number 25 scoop to use to ventilate . after retrieving the nails , he proceeded to walk towards the face area when he stepped off a ledge in the mine floor causing his to fall and twist his left knee . the mine floor in the area of the incident was damp and slightly muddy .
a fall of roof occurred at the tailgate of 3t longwalk in 3 ac of 25 at 89 + 20. using 8' rib bolts for trusses and 6 ' combination double fork in center and 2 rows of 6x6 timbers between cross-cuts . slip runs through area lost power on face could not pull shields and lost the roof .
employee was operating a getman tractor , helped load material on man cage , when cage returned to bottom he walked towards his tractor and tripped on a wire rope sling and fell on his hands and   knees . accident occurred 1-24-03 but was not diagnosed until 2-20-03 with a torn meniscus right knee .
a supply car was lifted by the scoop bucket to remove cement blocks that were under the car . when the employee reached for a block , the car slid off the scoop bucket . the employee's left thumb was caught between the car and a cement block resulting in a fracture .
driver came out of breakroom . a 2nd employee was backing out of parking spot . neither saw the other . bumper of pickup hit driver .
a small fire was discovered at the base of the   c   pile clean coal . the fire was about 2' high by 5' wide , 8' long . this coal pile was warm . we waited until day shift management arrived at 6 am and   a tractor was used to separate the warm coal . the coal self-extinguished once pushed by the tractor . the coal was then blended with other coal and shipped out by rail . no equipment/people
employee was helping hold the wrench and belt when the operator was pushing the bolt up in place and then it bent pushing his thumb into the canopy of the bolter .
a non-injury roof fall was found by the fire boss on his weekly examination . the fall was in the west mains number 1 entry at cross-cut 30. the fall measured 25 ' by 25 ' and 6 to 6 1/2 ' high .
driver had chest pains on mine safety and health administration site and was transported via ambulance to saint   genevieve missouri . hospital , driver passed away at hospital at 11:11 am .
an employee operating a komatsu dozer was pushing an ripping material on a downward grade , somehow the dozer slid sideways and continued to slide 35 feet off a 27 ft high embankment . the equipment rolled one revolution and landed back on its tracks . 911 was called , and then the employee was life flighted from the scene to the university of utah hospital .
employee was assisting in maintenance work by helping lift an 80-pound valve . during the lifting task , the employee apparently strained his elbow . due to persistent pain , the employee was taken for medical evaluation on 10/8/04 when he was diagnosed with tendonitis in his elbow and provided medication and placed on restrictive duty .
employee was assisting with repairs . using a wrench , the wrench slipped , employee slipped and fell backwards from a sitting position onto a rock on concrete . employee incurred bruised muscled in back . employee had a preexisting herniated disk in back , he was currently completing physical therapy so employee was taken to hospital for observation . employee was instructed to rest and stretch the muscles .
unplanned roof fall in the c-2 butt , room number 2 , 1 cross-cut outby spad # 608. at the time of the fall , the primary roof support was 4 ft fully grouted resin bolts .
the roof bolt operator was drilling the roof where a piece of drawrock measuring 20 '' long x 14 '' wide x 4 '' thick fell and struck his left forearm .
employee   states he parked a front end loader and when stepping out from the loader , he caught his right foot in the last bottom step . employee   fell to the ground and when he got up he felt pain in his right knee .
driller was found at the 4140 level underground and unresponsive by the leadman .
employee had both of his hands on a monitor pack that controls power for a miner on mobile mining unit 011-0 section when he received electrical shock from 110 volts . he did not miss any work as a result of this injury .
employee states he was loosening bolt and wrench slipped causing him to cut his hand on piece of stair metal overhead .
employee was operating shuttle car when employee hit a pot hole in road way . employee bounced and hit head on canopy .
while harvesting copper cathode , cathode stuck on starter sheet . while loosening the cathode with the pry bar , the cathode slipped off the starter sheet and cut the harvester on the upper arm requiring 16 stitches .
employee was in the process of installing the lid on a vertical shaft impactor . miners were using a telehandle to lower the vertical shaft impactor lid back into place . the lid was slightly misaligned . miner used a pry bar to move lid into place . as he began to pry , the lid shifted and dropped into place and pinched the bar causing it to flip up and strike the left side of the miners face .
employee was handling panning when he received a laceration on his left forearm that required stitches .
temperatures were very high and the humidity was very high . the employee was loading trailers and was overcome by the heat . employee suffered from heat exhaustion .
employee was lifting a return roller ( 40 lb ) . the employee picked up the roller by squatting down holding it near his body and bending at the knees . when he stood up , he felt a pain in left shoulder/bicep area . he was evaluated by a physician on 6-19-14 and given a return to work with restrictions .
employee was checking the oil on the loader when he slipped . he was able to catch himself but wrenched his thumb . he reported the accident and was given first aid . on 10/2 he was seen by a doctor . the doctor released him back to his usual and customary . on 10/26 it was discovered that he had been given prescription drugs . this is reportable .
after replacing belt on metal roller conveyor belt the employee and another repairman were tracking the belt . the other employee asked employee to hand him a wrench across the belt . as he handed the wrench across the belt with his right hand his gloved left hand was pulled into the roller .
employee was cutting old bolt with hacksaw . standing on mucker bucket hacksaw blade broke with pressure and employee fell from bucket striking rib and floor . approx . 4 to 5 ft hurting his head and back .
employee `` blacks-out '' and falls to floor - hitting head on guard rail/hand rail . employee was not exposed to any industrial or work activity event - coworker describes incident as `` it looked like a seizure   of some type . '' attending physicians have not determined the black out cause .
hitting a pivot pin on the front boom of endloader with a hammer missed and hit his own foot . knocking himself off the fender of endloader .
a non injury roof fall occurred at cross-cut   28 of 2nd east mains . int he number 3 entry the fall measured 44 ' long x 31 ' wide x 7 to 9 ft high in the intersection .
the employee was shoveling cement into a screw box . the employee was raising up with a shovel full of material and twisted at the waist to put the cement into the screw . upon doing so the employee felt a sharp pain in his lower back .
attempting to take a guard off raw mill number 3 tailing screw with another employee , the guard flew up and took the nail off his right thumb .
on 4-5-06 employee was tramming the bolt machine from the number 4 entry to the number 5 entry . he backed the bolter out of number 4 and was turning toward # 5. while pivoting the machine with the inch controls , a fly board lying in the fly board rack went against the rib and swung out toward employee hitting him in the left temple area .
employees were cutting a bolt out of a screen . employee was attempting to knock the bolt out and a piece of hot slag landed on employee's face near eye . when employee tried to brush it off , brushed it into eye . employee was wearing safety glasses at the time of the injury .
employee was in the primary feeder to see if a large rock way stuck in the crusher when he stepped on a rock twisting his right ankle and breaking it .
